THE ATTITUDES AND PERCEPTIONS OF
USERS ON INDOOR FOOTBALL FACILITIES
AND CONTINIOUS TRAINING PLACES: Case,
Jyväskylä, FINLAND
Gökhan Ates
Bachelor’s Thesis
May 2014
 Degree Programme in Facility Management
School of Business and Services Management

DESCRIPTION
Author(s)
Gökhan Ates
Type of publication
Bachelor´s Thesis
Date
12.05.2014
Pages
59
Language
English
Permission for web
publication
( X )
Title
THE ATTITUDES AND PERCEPTIONS OF USERS ON INDOOR FOOTBALL FACILITIES AND CONTINIOUS TRAINING
PLACES: Case Jyväskylä, FINLAND
Degree Programme in Facility Management
Tutor(s)
Simon Kay-Jones
Assigned by
Abstract
The objective of the research was to find out the attitudes and perception of users on how to adopt Finnish
football facilities to permanent training places for players to increase the quality of Finnish football. It is known
that football is not the number one sport in Finland because of long winter break that makes it challenging for
football to play on the outside pitches.
The goal was to find out football players’ and experts` perspective whether indoor football facilities could improve
the quality of Finnish football or not. The findings might lead to football players being provided with indoor
pitches. After that, the quality and ability of Finnish players could be improved, which could, eventually, have
positive effects on national team.
The study was based on qualitative research method. Thus, a survey questionnaire was sent to football players and
interview with experts in order to gather reliable information. And, also different analysis methods such as
`blueprints` and `service journeys` were used in the research process. Participants were Finnish and international
people who are related to the central Finnish football industry.
Participants found access to appropriate place for training in winter season as a major barrier improvement.
Likewise, successful sports athletes in any field are perceived by the participants, to require continuous training
facilities at the elite level, by removing the lack of indoor facilities.
As a recommendation, future researches can be conducted for the whole Finland to see how Finnish football
should be promoted for the future success of the Finnish national football team.
Keywords
Finnish football, indoor football facilities, players` ability, quality in football, interview, survey, recommendation
Miscellaneous
1
Contents
1. Introduction………………………………………………………………3
2. Background……………………………………………………………....6
2.1Football in general…………………………………………………….6
2.2Finnish football………………………………………………………..7
2.3Development of sport in Finland………………….…………………9
2.4 A brief introduction to football in winter season…………………..12
2.5Existing indoor football facilities: case Jyväskylä………………….14
2.5.1 Killeri indoor football pitch……………………………………17
2.5.2 Hipposhalli convertible indoor football pitch………………..19
3. Research problem...……………………………………………………...20
3.1Research questions…………………………………………………...22
3.2Objectives and motives………………………………………………..23
4. Methodology………………………………………………………………23
4.1 Choice of case study………………………………………………….27
5. Collection of data……….………………………………………………..29
6. Research Results………………………………………………………...30
6.1 Survey questionnaire results………………………………………...30
6.2 Interview results…………………………………………………….....38
7. Reliability / Validity………………………………………………………39
8. SWOT analysis of indoor football facilities in Jyväskylä based on
qualitative research results……………………………………………41
8.1Strengths………………………………………………………………42
8.2Weaknesses…………………………………………………………..42
8.3Opportunities……………………………………………………….....43
8.4Threats…………………………………………………………………43
2
9. Discussion on the reliability of the research and future research
areas…….…………………………………………………………………44
10.Conclusion and discussion…..…………………………………….....45
References……………………………………………………………......48
Figures…………………………………………………………………….50
Appendixes……………………………………………………………….51
 Survey questions…………………………………………………..52
 Interview questions and answers………………………………..53
3
1. Introduction
“In the past two decades, sport has moved from being a pastime
to a business as a result of the process of commercialization,
which has led sports managers and organizations to become
concerned with business principles. This commercialization
process has led sports organizations to be described as
business-like as they become market orientated, pursue
operational strategies that maximize profit or revenue, and
become responsive to needs of customers”
 Robinson (2008, p 308)
In today`s world, sports has become one of the biggest industries that involves
a great number of fans and athletes. It is not only an activity that athletes do
but also people all around the world do it on a daily basis in order to stay fit
and healthy.
“Throughout, a sport is defined as an activity requiring direct physical
competition with an opponent, has established procedures and rules, and
defined criteria for determining victory” (Poliakoff, 1987). The most important
and motivating aspects of sports are trophies, medals or money for victory
because competitors have the immediate goal of winning the contest.
“The most watched sport in the world is football reporting some 3.5
billion fans across the world with a heavy concentration of those
fans in Europe, Asia and Africa. The International Football
Federation (FIFA) is reportedly valued at $1 billion with equity of
$1.061 million. At the last World Cup in 2010, television rights were
valued at $650 million”
 (FIFA (2014).
These numbers are tremendous when compared to other sports such as
basketball, baseball, cricket, ice hockey or volleyball. That is why football is
the biggest sport with its equity and assets.
4
Although, football is so important in most countries, some countries like
Finland face the cold winter season that affects football culture negatively.
“The position of football in Finland is affected by the climate. Winters are long
and cold, inevitably directing people’s interest towards winter sports, in which
Finnish athletes have been successful at the Olympics and else- where”
(Itkonen&Nevala,2012, 579.) Numerous of players are not able to play for a
whole winter season because of the weather that makes it impossible to play
out in the open pitches. Also, weather plays an essential role in how often
players can attend training sessions.
“Another dimension of quality of viewing is weather conditions. One
robust finding from studies of the relation between weather and
attendance is that types of weather conditions that are known to
disrupt play in a sporting contest will have a negative effect on
attendance”
 (Borland & Mcdonald, 2003, p 488).
Therefore, players who play and practice only during a limited number of
months do not have the same as those, for example, in Spain where efficient
training is possible all year round.
On the other hand, as for Finland, success and quality are lower in Finnish
football. One factor may be the lack of indoor football facilities restricts training
resulting in less able players. However, since the weather cannot be changed
completely, Finnish football facilities may need to be adapted to the winter
season by building more indoor facilities in order to offer the potential to
increase the skills of players.
“Football will remain a low-cost sport, but will move towards a more
realistic charging system in order to be able to provide better quality
playing environments. Formats of football will have changed, with a
far broader range on offer and different ‘entry points’ into the game
– both recreational and affiliated. These flexible formats will require
5
that facilities are similarly flexible and capable of supporting new
and emerging game formats.”
 The FA, (2013-2015, P 11)
According to survey respondents whose team has to pay approximately 80
Euros per hour, the prices of indoor football facilities are high which means
that the more training there is the greater the cost will be. Therefore, it would
be logical to lower the prices to provide a better access to the facilities. This
could be helpful to improving Finnish football because families have to pay a
considerable amount of money to teams for their children` yearly fees.
Therefore, many families cannot offer football as a hobby to their children
because it is too expensive for them. “Another parent, who said they pay
between 7,000 and 8,000 euros per year for three kids to play football in
Espoo “(Yle, 2013.)However, if football would be cheaper hobby for children,
then families could send their children to football teams, which would be vital
for the teams to produce better players and raise their level of success both
nationally and internationally in the long run.
The mixed research methodology was applied in order to collect data on the
development of indoor football facilities. Moreover, all the data was collected
through related academic articles, books, observations, surveys and
interviews with experts. The survey was sent to three different
semiprofessional football players groups to receive different opinions of
individuals about indoor football facilities.
The goal was to find out active football player’s and professionals`
perspectives on whether indoor football facilities could improve the quality of
Finnish football or not. Attention was also tried to pay to the possible lack of
indoor football facilities in Jyväskylä. This may assist football players by
providing the initial research into the need for indoor pitches during winter
periods. Based on these findings, a discussion will follow to interpret the
relationship between an access to indoor winter sports facilities and the quality
and ability of players in the Finnish football field.
6
2. Background
2.1 Football in General
Football refers to sports that involve kicking a ball with foot to score a goal.
The most popular of this sport is generally known as ``football`` or soccer. It is
a sport played between two teams of eleven players with a spherical ball. The
game is played on a rectangular field with a goal at each end. The object of
the game is to score by using any part of the body besides the arms and
hands to get the football into the opposing goal. The goalkeepers are the only
players who allowed to touch the ball with their hands or arms while it is in
play and then only in their penalty area. Outfield players mostly use their feet
to strike or pass the ball, but may use their head or torso to strike the ball
instead. The team that scores the most goals by the end of the match wins.
The Laws of The Game were originally codified in England by The Football
Association in 1863. Association football is governed internationally by the
International Federation of Association Football (FIFA; French: Fédération
Internationale de Football Association) which organizes a World Cup every
four years (FIFA, Rules, 2014).
Football has been one of the most attractive sports for fans and athletes in
many countries. “There are about 38 million registered football players
worldwide, with some 270 million people being involved in football. It is also
the worlds’ most significant team sport in economic terms” (Iho & Heikkilä,
2008, p3). This makes football one of the most popular sports in the world.
“Football has successfully outmaneuvered many other team sports, such as
ice hockey, basketball or handball, and has been accepted as the number one
sport with regard to media attention and audience reception worldwide”
(Horne & Manzenreiter, 2002b). According to FIFA (the football international
governing body, Fédération Internationale de Football Association) statistics,
the FIFA World Cup Korea against Japan set a new record for a sports event
of 49.2 billion people worldwide in terms of viewer hours. The 2002 Final
between Brazil and Germany was the most viewed match in FIFA World Cup
history, with 1.1 billion individuals watching the game, and being broadcasted
in 213 countries worldwide.
7
2.2 Finnish football
FIGURE 1: Four pillars of Finnish Football (Van der Aar, 2011)
Football is a sport that it is followed by people from different nations, age
group and sex all around the world. “Football has been the world’s most
popular sport, at least since the late nineteenth century and its international
diffusion by the British. The global game spans culturally diverse societies in
all continents “(Giulianotti&Robertson, 2004, p 2). However, this sport is not
the number one in Finland because Ice Hockey is preferred to watch rather
than football in this country. “The main series of ice hockey is the only Finnish
ball sport that can be regarded as a professional sport. All other ball games
are played either semi-professionally or on a completely amateur basis”
(Itkonen&Nevala, 2012, p579). Because of the low population of Finland which
is approximately 5.4 million people, there is not that much interest of football.
”Sport in Finland, in general, is not as commercialized and professionalized as
in other parts of Western Europe or in the US. This is due to historical, cultural
and socio-economic reasons that caused the prevalence of the public and
volunteer sector in the country. Additionally, the number one sport is not
football, as being the case in most European countries, but ice-hockey, of
which the highest division is the only fully professional league in Finnish sport”
8
(Szeróvay, 2010, p9). That is why; it gives challenge to both clubs and football
association to promote football in any kind of Finnish media. Finnish football
structures and regulations have been controlled by the Finnish football
association and top division is managed by Veikkausliiga ry.
Finnish football consist of one professional league, one semi-professional
league and three amateurs leagues with their own sub-ordinate leagues. The
professional league called Veikkausliiga which exists of twelve teams and all
teams play against each other three times during one season. The first
division league is called Ykkönen and it is semi-professional which consists of
thirteen teams, with all teams playing each other twice in a season. Below the
first division, there is a second division which is called Kakkonen and it is an
amateur division, separated in three geographic areas, all including fourteen
teams that play each other twice in one season.
The media for football in Finland is different than other countries because all
the games which are played in Veikkausliiga are streamed online but the
system is through a pay-per-view server which means that two or three games
of every round are broadcasted live on television through pay-tv sports
channels which is called UrhoTV 8 and Canal Plus. However, customers who
pay for these services are not satisfied with services that they receive
because they think that video quality and football expertise of the
commentators are being below average compared to other European
countries. The public broadcasting channel is called YLE which has the
sources to provide quality broadcasting, but it does not focus on Finnish
football games and only broadcasts games from the UEFA Champions
League
9
2.3 Development of Sports in Finland
Since it is already mentioned that football is not number one sport in Finland, it
would be logical to compare it with the most popular sport which is ice hockey
in order to see the difference between these two sports in this country for last
50 years. Recent developments of these two sports could provide an
informative context on how Ball sports and the industry more generally has
changed in Finland during the last 50years.
Firstly, the first hockey game played in Helsinki on Pohjoisranta (the Baltic
Sea) in 1899. However, there was no association until 1927, at that time
Finnish Skating Association introduced ice hockey as part of its program. After
that ice hockey adopted into teams and in 1928 the first club game is played in
Tampere on January 15 between Pyrintö vs. Palloilijat. Reipas from Viipuri
became the first national champion in ice hockey by winning over KIF with 5-1
in a six team tournament hosted by The Finnish Football Association. Also
that year first national team game played: Finland vs. Sweden 1-8. Through
The Finnish Skating Association Finland was approved as a member of LIHG
(Ligue Internationale de Hockey sur Glace).
Since growing, from these beginnings in Finland, in 1929 the Finnish Ice
Hockey Association has been founded on January 20 and features 17 clubs.
HJK Helsinki wins the first championship. After it became more professional
sport with association, success also came with different competition. Example,
1962 Finland gains its first medal in IIHF championship: a silver medal at
European Championships. And also Finland won the Euro Hockey
Tournament for the sixth time. But none of the success was as glory as world
ice hockey championship which Finland won two times. All the information
above proves that Finland has been successful with ice hockey and there is
perhaps a relation between why it became one of the most popular sports in
this country. Furthermore, giving numerical number of players would be good
prof about ice hockey, it is considered as hobby for more than 195 000 Finns.
There are 67 463 registered players and 428 clubs with 2976 teams.
Approximately 40 000 games played in one season and there are 2 257
referees and linesmen including 469 officials. As a facility, there are 249 rinks
10
in 217 ice halls. More than 50 full time employees located in eight areal
divisions and central office in Helsinki. (Finnish Ice Hockey Association, 2014)
Finnish ice hockey development can be seen through following figure:
FIGURE 2: Finnish ice hockey`s development process map for over years
(Ates, 2014)
On the other hand, Football was not as successful as ice hockey but it also
preferred by many people. Football history started when it was brought to
Finland in the 1890s by English sailors and the first Finnish football club was
set up in 1897. The FA of Finland was established in 1907 and became a
FIFA member the following year. Finnish FA is more popularly known as SPL,
after its local name of Suomen Palloliitto. The highest division of professional
football in Finland was formed in 1930 and was called Mestaruussarja. It was
professionalized in 1990 and was renamed Veikkausliiga. Competed by 12
teams, the lowest-ranked club at the end of the season plays a two-legged
match against the top team of the second division to determine relegation or
promotion. Because of the harsh winter in Finland, regular season usually
runs during spring, summer, and autumn (usually from April to October). The
Finnish national football team played their first international match in 1911, a
2-5 defeat to Sweden. The following year, Finland made its best performance
by finishing fourth in the 1912 Olympics. Finland is yet to qualify for the two
biggest international competitions in football: the UEFA European
Championship and the FIFA World Cup. However, the team nearly qualified to
11
Euro 80, only failing to do so by a point. They were also close to qualifying in
the 1986 World Cup, but came two points short (Veikkausliiga, 2014.)
Although, football started roughly the same time as ice hockey in Finland, it
could not develop as much as ice hockey due to factors of climate, culture
together with financial investment being focused on ice hockey development
rather than football. Ice hockey has had in historical terms better finance
investment which has led to better facilities. It professionalized with this
support and developed at a greater rate than football over the same period.
Finnish football development over the years can be seen from following figure:
FIGURE 3: Finnish football`s development process map over years (Ates,
2014)
Ice hockey is traditionally the most popular sport in Finland but football is
increasing its popularity over recent years, especially among kids, youth, and
women players. According to information that has taken from central Finnish
Football Association, the number of registered football players in whole
Finland is about 119 000 and number of players in central Finland is 6003.
The most surprising information is that number of adult players in central
Finland is 1220 but this number is almost four times bigger if it considered for
U19 and younger 4783 (Palloliitto, 2014).
12
“The popularity of football has increased continuously in Finland.
Measured by the number of players, football is the most popular
youth sport. In 2009, there were 217,000 children and young people
aged 3–18 mentioning football as their hobby. The next most
popular ball games were floor ball (144,000) and ice hockey
(101,000). The growth of girls’ and women’s football has been
particularly strong, fuelled no doubt by the success of Finnish
women football players in international tournaments. The holding of
Women’s European Championships in Finland in 2009 also had an
effect on the popularity of football.”
 (Itkonen&Nevala, (2012, p, 11)
Itkonen and Nevala show the level of interest by the young towards Football in
Finland. As the summary numbers show; the interest by young sport athletes
for football is more than ice hockey with the number of registered players for
Football being almost double of its comparable ice hockey figure. However,
successes of these two sports are not even Ice hockey has been more
successful than football and this relates to appropriate facilities and
professionalism of ice hockey which football has not yet, been adapted within
a Finnish context. While revenue and investment compared between football
and ice hockey is large mainly due to the sport of ice hockey being a spectator
sport and the number one sport in Finland.
2.4 A Brief Introduction to Football in the Winter Season
“The position of football in Finland is affected by the climate.
Winters are long and cold, inevitably directing people’s interest
towards winter sports, in which Finnish athletes have been
successful at the Olympics and else- where”
 (Itkonen & Nevala (2012, 579).
Football is considerably affected by the cold winter season in Finland so it is
considered as a summer sport by a remarkable number of people. The most
prevalent perception of football is; `it cannot be played while there is still snow
outside`. That is because Palloliitto is trying to make football to be played out
13
in the open earlier than is typical by organizing earlier tournaments. However,
football fans are not willing to go to watch early football games because they
prefer to go stadia to watch football when Ice hockey season is over. It is a
interesting context to which football must operate, as it seems inappropriate
for the Finnish football league to start earlier when there are not enough fans.
However, it seems that the season should be one to two months longer even if
the facilities and fans are not yet ready for that because the more football
season is longer the more players can improve and train in their maximum
level.
The change has to be started with the junior football teams because this point
was raised earlier by FIF in their analysis of entry points and providing more
opportunities to developing athletes early to increase the competitiveness of
Finnish Football. Providing football field for athletes is the most important
factor where they can train to increase their performance but it is difficult to
provide suitable facilities due to cold winter in Finland because it should be
indoor facilities where provide athletes continuous training places. There is a
trend that enables people to train and play football even in the winter season
thanks to synthetic grass and indoor facilities which have been used in the
countries where it is difficult to take care of real grass because of the effect of
the weather. “With football’s ongoing popularity only checked in some
countries by extreme weather conditions, Finland 2003 was seen as the ideal
location and the perfect opportunity to try out the synthetic turf and assess its
performance” (ESTO, 2014). With the help of indoor football facilities, young
football players can focus on the game throughout the year against which
there was a strong opposition just 10 years ago, when you could only play in
the summer time. “A Finnish Coach Jyrki Heliskoski said that “I believe this is
the solution for the future of football in Finland,” he added, “With our long, hard
winters, it could extend our season by two or three months and that could be
invaluable for Finnish football.”
Indoor football facilities and synthetic grass pitches with under”soil” heating
system can be found in many cities of Finland. However, according to
blueprinting of indoor football facilities in Jyvaskyla and semiprofessional
football players perception, there is not sufficient amount of indoor football
14
facilities for the young and existing football generation to provide continues
training pitches for the whole year round because the number of young
players for U19 is 4783 in central Finland.
The existing capacities of these facilities which are only, Killeri and
Hipposhalli, are inadequate for this demand. Improving and increasing the
number of these kinds of facilities will not only provide a place where to train
but will also change the eagerness of young players completely because they
will eventually bring their families as spectators;
“Young people who believe they are competent and have the skills
to be physically active are more likely to be active. Likewise, young
people who feel supported by friends and families or are
surrounded by others interested in physical activity, activity are
more likely to participate in both structured and non-structured
activities. These social norms are powerful in determining people’s
actions”
 ([Increasing Physical activity] 2009).
2.5 Existing Indoor Football facilities: case Jyväskylä
According to second Finnish football division team Gnistan’s head of youth
development Sipi Ulvas, there are not enough indoor football facilities and
stating that: “There has been an increase in the number of heated pitches in
Finland, but we still don’t have enough. Gnistan are fortunate in that our home
ground is well-equipped to deal with the cold and we can carry on playing
even when the temperature gets to -10 or -15, when many Finnish clubs have
to play indoors on inadequate surfaces. Our pitch is FIFA 2 star accredited,
and is very different to the old style astro-turf. It can take a stud and is quite
similar to natural grass.”
According to Ulvas, unfortunately many Finnish clubs, have to play
inadequate surfaces and there is no doubt that short football season affect
15
Finnish football negatively because quality cannot be improved as much as
other countries unless there are more investment for indoor football facilities
and changing people`s mindset about football.
The thesis case city of Jyväskylä is located in the lake district of Central
Finland. Jyväskylä´s population growth rate is one of the highest in Finland.
With the population of 135 000, city of Jyväskylä is the seventh largest city in
Finland. In order to prove the lack of indoor football facilities, it would be better
giving example of existing facilities in Jyväskylä. Also, it would be good
example to see Jyväskylä on the map of Finland in order to see where it is
exactly located in. Jyväskylä location can be seen on following figure:
FIGURE 4: Jyväskylä`s location on Finland map
There are limited amounts of indoor football facilities available for people who
live in Jyväskylä. According to central Finnish football association, there are
16
over 50 football teams from different division in central Finland but there are
only two indoor football facilities in the city. In order to understand more
deeply of services that players receive while they use the facilities, it can be
good evidence to show blueprint of facilities. Blue print of facilities is as
follows:
FIGURE 5: Blueprint of indoor football facilities in Jyvaskyla (Ates, 2014)
There are only two indoor football facilities in Jyväskylä which are not enough
for all teams; existing facilities in Jyvaskyla are following:
17
2.5.1 Killeri Indoor football Pitch
FIGURE 6: Killeri indoor Football
Killeri indoor Football facilities are located in Jyväskylä and it is approximately
15 km away from city center. It is available for indoor football all year round
but there is a huge problem that there are many football teams in Jyväskylä
which are playing for first, second, third, fourth and fifth division of Finnish
Football and most of the teams would like to reserve place to start training at
winter season but there are not enough reservation time slots available for all
teams. The following appendix is taken from Killeri indoor football field`s online
schedule:
18
FIGURE 7: Reservation schedule of Killeri Indoor football
The schema that attached above shows that most of the accessible times has
been reserved for the JJK` juniors team and there are only limited amount of
places left which are reserved by some other amateur teams. However, even
if there are some times available for reservation, teams do not have enough
money to reserve time because the prices are comparatively high between 90
€ to 100 € per hours. There are some summer season offer in Killeri which are
around 30 € per hour but none of the teams interviewed (and generally
Finnish teams more widely, given the popularity of booking evidenced) want to
play inside in summer time due to convenience of outside facilities. The
service journey of the Killeri indoor football facility shows more detail of the
customer journey while they use Killeri. The following figure is about service
journey of the customer:
19
FIGURE 8: Service journey of Killeri indoor football facilities` customers (Ates,
2014)
2.5.2 Hipposhalli convertible indoor football Pitch
The Hipposhalli convertible indoor football pitch is located nearby the city
center and it cannot be considered as full time indoor football facility because
there are so many other sports performed that is why it cannot be converted
whenever teams want to play. Therefore, it is not convenient for all football
teams that really limited time can be reserved for the trainings. According to
central Finnish football association`s officer Mika Järvinen, number of football
teams are increasing which requires more indoor facilities for them to train.
Also, players are not happy about the size and surface of the Hipposhalli
because it is small field and the surface is hard (resulting in injury of players).
Because of the location, it is a good place to train and if it is modified such as
changing artificial grass, then can be considered as good place just for
training. The interview respondent R1 stated that “There is a Hipposhalli, but
there is only certain days that can be played otherwise it is a running truck and
surface of the football field is hard and burning your skin”. Hipposhalli can be
seen on following figure:
20
FIGURE 9: Hipposhalli convertible indoor football field
3 Research Problem
“Indoor soccer is a great way to get extra training sessions in while
in the off-season. We roll through each of the benefits of playing
indoor soccer and the main reasons you should have your team
play indoor soccer in the off-season”
 Johnson, (2014.)
Finnish football`s future depends on indoor football facilities where young and
existing generation can improve their skills and train in off season to be fit for
the actual season. There are indoor football facilities in most cities in Finland
however they lack adequate provision for the demand because players should
have the possibility to train 2 or 3 times in a week in order to maintain fitness.
For example, stages between the ages of fourteen to seventeen are the
period when players need to be trained in order to learn how to compete. “At
this stage the ratio of competition in training is increasing. The focus is in
developing complete football players which means that all of the sectors of
technical, tactical, physical and emotional development and the life style of the
athlete are in balance “(Beswik 2001, p15.)
Moreover, some football players shift to `futsal` for winter season due to the
lack of indoor football facilities. Futsal might be helpful to maintain fitness but
21
it will not improve their football skills. The rules and contexts are completely
different between futsal and football; therefore, the biggest barrier for Finnish
football is not having enough indoor football pitches to cater for demand which
compromises players` ability to improve skills. If however, there would be
enough spaces for people, it could improve the quality level in the Finnish
football league.
According to the second Finnish football division team Gnistan’s head of youth
development Sipi Ulvas, “Gnistan’s home pitch is called the Fair Play Arena,
and thanks to a heated artificial pitch and snow clearing machinery, Gnistans
team, play and train throughout the winter. With an average temperature in
Helsinki of -7 during February, the facilities are crucial for player development
and the rapid improvement of the club’s youth programme in recent years”.
In addition, football seems to be a high-cost hobby in Finland the opposite of
other countries because families have to pay considerable amount of money
to clubs for their children which prevent families in sending their children who
cannot afford these prices. However, in many countries, football remains lowcost sport where most of the children can join the teams easily. Since, football
is already an expensive sport in Finland;
“The report said Finland’s most expensive children’s sports
pastimes are horse riding and figure skating, the least being floor
ball, soccer (football) and the Finnish version of baseball. It added
the cost of hobbies for children, in particular competitive hobbies,
has risen by 300 percent over the past ten years”
 (Upi, 2014.)
It has to move towards to be able to provide better quality playing
environments because there will be different “entry points” where it requires
better recreational and affiliated facilities.
As a summary, athletes need to train for whole year round in order to be fit
and increase their talents but it seems impossible for most of the teams in
22
Jyväskylä to train in winter season because they do not have enough space
for trainings. Therefore, most of the players are resting for 4 months of the
year which has a negative impact upon their performance. The following
chapter is a more detailed definition of the research problem regarding this
question of `entry points` and indoor football facilities.
3.1 Research Questions
By taking in consideration both cultural and seasonal factors, the goal of this
thesis is to ascertain an answer to the main research question:
 From the perspective of young active football players, will developing
indoor football facilities help to improve the quality in Finnish football?
This question was chosen as a main question and also improvement and
suggestion will be found out through research objectives which are as follow:
The research objectives to meet this question are:
“What are the needs, aspiration and attitudes of young active footballers in
Finland? “
“From `a young active footballer`s` perspective, what are the ways to meet
demand of indoor football facilities for the young generation?”
“How can improvements of indoor football facilities affect the Finnish football
in general?”
23
3.2 Objectives and motives
The objective of the work is to assist the Finnish football association in seeing
the importance of indoor football facilities to players` ability and the success of
Finnish football in the international competition. It is essential to see how
indoor facilities can be help a young generation to have an active football
culture. According to researches that Finnish football association made and
football professionals who are former professional football player and Finnish
football referee, there seems to be a high demand for football among
members of the younger generation, if continuous training places are provided
for them the whole year round.
The reason of choosing this topic was that the author has been playing
football in his home country for a long time and when he arrived in Finland, he
could not find any place where he could play football in the winter season.
Therefore, it was surprising for the author that most players were resting for a
period of months, a factor that affects the players’ ability negatively. That is
why, through studying facility management, the author thinks that he could
apply his knowledge into sports facility management which is related to this
topic.
4 Methodology
“In primary data analysis the individuals who collect the data also
analyze it; for meta-analysis an investigator quantitatively combines
the statistical results from multiple studies of a phenomenon to
reach a conclusion; in secondary data analysis individuals who
were not involved in the collection of the data analyze the data.
Secondary data analysis, may be based on the published data or it
may be based on the original data”
 Church (2001, 32.)
24
Research methodology process includes a number of activities to be
performed in order to find data. These are arranged in proper sequence of
timing for conducting research and one activity after another is performed to
complete the research work. The main source for data is usually primary and
secondary data.
According to this explanation of primary and secondary data, both research
methods will be used in order to find solution to the research questions. As
primary data, a questionnaire to be filled out by active football players, and
also an interview with professionals with expert opinions who are actively in
football in central Finland and will be used as basis of raw data to answer the
research questions and objectives.
“A survey is way to collect information directly from people in a
systematic, standardized way. Survey use questionnaires that ask
the same question in the same way to all respondents. Data
collected this way can then be used to make inferences about the
population of interest (e.g. farmer in your country, parents who
attend a parenting workshop, etc.) Information can be collected
about people` s opinions, knowledge, attitudes, beliefs, behaviors,
plans and background”
 Powel&Hermann, (2000, P 3).
The reason for author to choose a survey and interview method was to collect
data for a better understanding of a certain research problem.
On the other hand, Vartanian, (2010, p. 3), states “Analysis of secondary data,
where secondary data can include any data that are examined to answer a
research question other than the question(s) for which the data were initially
collected” and the author will in this research utilize secondary data, of which
includes sports literatures and theories to gather more information about the
topic generally and to provide a contextual base to the Primary data.
25
This research design is based on “inductive” research strategies because its
aim is to establish universal generalization to be used as a pattern explanation
by using accumulative observation “Observations can be conducted on nearly
any subject matter, and the kinds of observations you will do depend on your
research question” (Driscoll 2011, 160) and data which based on survey and
interviews. Inductive research strategy was the best suited method for this
study because the attitudes and perceptions of the user of indoor facilities was
the main focus that needed to be carried out. The information that was
gathered through research strategies produce generalization for Finnish
indoor football and pattern to explain further observations.
“The primary purpose of the inductive approach is to allow
research findings to emerge from the frequent, dominant, or
significant themes inherent in raw data, without the restraints
imposed by structured methodologies. In deductive analyses, such
as those used in experimental and hypothesis testing research,
key themes are often obscured, reframed, or left invisible because
of the preconceptions in the data collection and data analysis
procedures imposed by investigators”
 (Thomas (2006, 2.)
Moreover, the research case can be considered as “exploration” because it is
associated with inductive strategy which requires finding out answers to
questions like the “what” of subject matter, (regarding indoor football facilities).
“Exploratory case study research is often regarded as little more than a
preliminary step toward specific and focused causal research to generate
required hypotheses” (Streb 2010, 6.) The size of the respondents that aimed
to receive was around (25-35) responses from three different groups which
was successfully achieved by collecting 30 responses. Thus, this gave
chances to author for data saturation which is necessary for qualitative
research but much less than a quantitative research. All the respondents of
the survey and the interview had the experience by using indoor football
facilities in Jyvaskyla which enabled author to use data saturation. Types of
the respondent were young football players between the ages of 18 to 26 from
two different teams in Jyvaskyla. There were different types of questions
26
concerning interview because author wanted to widen the perspective of
current situation about indoor football facilities in Jyvaskyla and answer the
research question and objectives. However, most of the respondents had the
same ideas on current situation about indoor football facilities in central
Finland region. The interview questions were as follows:
 What is your general opinion about Finnish football?
 How do you think Finnish football can be improved?
 How would you describe indoor football facilities in Jyvaskyla?
 Do you think that current indoor football facilities meet demand of the
teams from Jyvaskyla?
 How are the demands for football in younger generation?
 How important to build new indoor football facilities for Finnish football?
Can this increase quality in general?
 What are the biggest factors that prevent Finnish football to develop as
much as other European countries?
The reason of choosing each question was to understand Finnish football
more deeply and see the perspectives of expert about development of football
facilities. Respondents were experienced about football industry in central
Finland area which gave insight ideas as response to interview.
In addition, football players are the most important aspect in football business
so it is essential to receive their opinions about indoor football facilities.
Quality in football starts with players and they are the main focus to improve
the level. Therefore, it is important to know what the players think of the
current situation in football facilities in Jyvaskyla.
27
4.1 Choice of case study
There are two main reasons of choosing Jyväskylä as a case city. The first,
one is that the author saw the struggling nature of the football teams through
first hand observation. It was observed that teams were not able to find places
or time schedules to train in warm-up sessions in order to prepare for the main
season. And the second; that Jyväskylä is neither a big nor a small city in the
context of the average Finnish city size and population, density. Jyväskylä is a
regional center and problem solutions for indoor football facilities in Jyvaskyla
can also be applied for other cities and regions.
The city of Jyväskylä is located in the lake district of Central Finland.
Jyväskylä´s population growth rate is one of the highest in Finland. With the
population of 135 000, City of Jyväskylä is the seventh largest city in Finland.
The Jyväskylä region is easily reached by land and air: the distance of 270
kilometers from Helsinki takes only 35 minutes by plane and some 3 hours by
car or by rail. Jyväskylä is a school and university city with 47 000 students
during the academic year. That is why it has relatively young population where
they do so many different sport activities including Football.
Finland has not been in the interests of football researchers internationally.
The 100-year history of FIFA has no mention of Finland, nor does the recent
special issue on Scandinavian football of Soccer and Society (Itkonen &
Nevala, 25 Apr 2012, P 2), Since there is not that much research available
about Finnish football facilities It is understandable, then, that it is important to
focus on this unexplored phenomenon and select the right research strategies
in order to reach sufficient information to answer the research questions
correctly and provide an emerging understanding of the Finnish context in
Football.
All the questions that have been asked to people are designed to obtain an
insight in the ideas and suggestions, as well as the overall level of satisfaction
of football players. By getting result of the questions, different factors in
football player’s satisfaction are supposed to be covered. This thesis will
provide different aspects on the subject of needs to be improved with the help
28
of indoor football facilities which are; players` ability; improvement of
satisfaction and quality of football in Finland.
It is important to create relevant and appropriate questions in order to provide
sufficient surety (reliable and credible) of answers for what is looked for in the
research. For the survey, there are a variety of different ways to apply but in
this thesis, the online questionnaire survey was used due to its accessibility to
people and provision of graphs and analytical data of the answers. Using the
online survey was also good for the participants because most of the
participants are studying and working so it is difficult to gather the entire
participants in same place. Therefore, participants were given two weeks’ time
to respond the survey and most of them were able to take part in the research.
Google doc which is online software programs that enable people to create,
share survey and receive all the relevant data will be used.
Questions, mentioned above in the research question section, are going to be
asked to people who play football or associated with football in order to collect
reliable information. The author has expert knowledge about the subject
matter of football and he has conducted pilot interviews to establish the
appropriate participants who were interested in answering questions were
invited to the research. Two weeks provide adequate time for all interested
participants to fill out the questionnaire, after which the form was closed and
final data was collected. Custominsight (2010) suggests giving a window of 7
to 10 days, with a follow-up reminder sent a few days before the end date, is
an effective method of using online survey questionnaires.
In addition to the survey questionnaire, it is also important to carry out semi
structured interviews with football experts to provide different opinions on the
Finnish football context and experts who can see the situation much wiser
than anyone else. The structure of the interview was semi-structured interview
because open ended questions were used in order to receive answers from
respondents:
“Semi-structured interviews were selected as the means of data
collection because of two primary considerations. First, they are
29
well suited for the exploration of the perceptions and opinions of
respondents regarding complex and sometimes sensitive issues
and enable probing for more information and clarification of
answers. Second, the varied professional, educational and personal
histories of the sample group precluded the use of a standardized
interview schedule”
 (Barriball & While (1994, 330.)
Also, the respondents were semi-elite experts who knew football well in the
central Finland areas. The results of the interview with the results from the
survey questionnaire gave an insight in the areas that both Finnish indoor
football facilities and Finnish football as a whole need to be improved upon.
By collecting data from both the questionnaire and the interview, the right
solutions can be found to fit the needs of both indoor football facilities and
Finnish football as a whole. This can be considered as 'data triangulation'.
“Data triangulation also referred as data sources triangulation depicts the use
of multiple data sources in the same study for validation purposes” (Hussein
2009, 3.)
5. Collection of data
The qualitative data which conducted through questionnaires, interviews,
academic books and articles was used in order to gather related research. A
questionnaire survey was sent to three different groups in Jyväskylä which
were the third Finnish football division team players of JPS (Jyväskylän
Seudun Palloseura), a Finnish futsal second division team Fs.Feeniks` players
and football related people who know the situation about football in Jyväskylä.
The questionnaire survey was conducted on 26 March to 7 April in 2014. The
purpose of the survey was to get a deep understanding and gather
perceptions of those who are involved in football. The respondents gave their
own ideas about their perception on indoor football facilities in Jyväskylä.
30
The goal was to receive 25-35 responses to gain reliable data. The deadline
for collecting the data was the end of the first week of April because usually
after March, most of the football teams are starting to play outside football
pitches and they already had experience the indoor facilities for training in the
winter season.
After the data had been collected, two different football professionals with
expert opinions who were former JJK professional football player and Finnish
futsal & football referee were interviewed in order to have deeper
understanding of the Finnish indoor football facilities more in deep. Ethical
questions and informed consent was asked to the interviewees and they
'exercised their right to anonymity'. Therefore, interview responded names are
not on the research and they are called as respondent (R1) and R (2). The
contents of the interviews were sent to the respondents approximately one
week before the interview to give them time to read them through before the
actual interviews. The interviewers were carried out in the middle of April, at a
suitable time for the respondents and taking approximately 30-40 minutes per
interview.
6. Research Results
6.1 Survey questionnaire results
This online survey questionnaire consists of 13 questions which was online
questionnaire prepared by using Google Docs for designing survey and
delivered to three different target group in order to find out the views of each
individuals. Although, author tried to do his best to receive more responses,
he could manage to receive (30) responses which also can be considered as
a reliable number for qualitative research which could enable author for data
saturation. (30) Responses were adequate for data saturation because
quantitative research requires much larger numbers of data. The result from
the survey is as follows:
31
Survey Figure 1: Gender
Figure 1 shows that all the respondents who took part in the survey were male
because target groups were men football and futsal teams which were from Fs
Feeniks, JPS and semiprofessional football players.
Survey figure 2: Occupation
As it is already mentioned above that Jyväskylä has young population where
attract large amounts of students from all around the Finland and different
countries. Most of the football teams have many players who also study at the
same time. In this survey case, target group teams also had many students
which consist of 70 % of occupation.
32
Survey figure 3: Experience of respondent
According to above survey chart, most of the respondents have been playing
football more than 10 years which makes them expert about many aspects
related to football subject. It also shows that those target groups were chosen
correctly in order to receive reliable data which were gathered through survey.
Survey figure 4: Respondent`s teams
In this survey, three different target groups were questioned because
comparison between different teams` players perspective on situation of
indoor football facilities in Jyväskylä would be good evidence to see
satisfaction of different teams` member. This is because, some teams can
reserve better schedule time for training in winter season and some teams
cannot reserve place which would bring different result on perception.
33
Survey figure 5: Best suited words for Finnish Football
Question 5 was designed to find out, what words can be best suited to
characterize Finnish football because a single word can easily explain a topic.
The survey results show that, people think that Finnish football is still in the
process of development and still has not been successful. However, according
to number of the young football players proof that football will be more popular
thanks to new generation because there are huge demands for football in
young generation.
Survey figure 6: Best indoor Football facility
34
To question 6 which dealt with the perceptions of the best indoor football
facilities, the respondents gave many answers which a `good` indoor facility
must have. The responses to the survey questions also show that people are
not satisfied with the maintenance and services of the facilities. Also, location,
temperature, lights and prices seems to be other factors that are have not yet
been sufficiently improved in Jyväskylä.
Survey figure 7: Satisfaction on indoor Football experience
Figure 3 above showed that most survey respondents have been playing
football for more than 10 years and they know what they really need to get
better football. According to these answers, 90 % of the respondents are not
satisfied with the current situation of indoor football facilities in Jyväskylä.
Survey Figure 8: Schedule of indoor Football satisfaction
In the schedule (figure 7 pg 19) Killeri indoor football facilities: most of the time
has been reserved to JJK`s juniors teams to train and free times when are
generally in a day time are not adequate for the people who work and study
due to daytime commitment such s work or schooling. It is understandable
35
that they give importance to young generation but there should appears a
need for more facilities that enable other people to train regardless of age.
Survey figure 9: Overall experience of indoor football in Jyvaskyla
The earlier question was in relation to capacity of facilities and if there was
enough or not. While, this question was designed to find out if people are
happy with the existing facilities and their qualities. It seems that people have
not voted for good grade in general and almost half of the respondent 45 %
vote for 2 which is below average. This result clearly says that people are not
satisfied with the quality of existing football facilities which need to be
improved.
Survey figure 10: People` perception to train in winter season
Most people in Finland think that football players are not willing to train in
winter season but in this figure, it is proved that most of the respondents 93 %,
would like to train in winter season if they would have enough facilities where
they can train whole year round to improve their talent and stay fit.
36
Survey figure 11: Effect of indoor football on player`s ability
According to survey, most of the respondents who took part in the survey
mentioned that building or providing indoor facilities for players, would help
them to improve their abilities and if this starts with junior teams, that would
also improve quality in national level naturally. Moreover, respondents think
that providing these kinds of opportunities, would motivate people to go there
to train more and more to achieve their goals. However, some of the
respondents recommended that only building facilities would not help because
there should more investment and interest on football which can make football
culture in society rather than ice hockey.
Survey figure 12: Can indoor Football facilities improve quality of Finnish
Football
37
Currently, Finnish football is not as successful as other countries and there
has to be solutions for this situation since football is the number one sport in
other countries. Indoor football seems to be one of the biggest options for this
situation because as much as people find space to train more and more, their
talents and abilities will increase automatically. Therefore, this would help
Finnish football to be more successful in international competition. Also, it can
be seen that most survey respondents think the same way as author and they
vote for 4 and 5 which are highest grade to vote by 80 %.
Survey figure 13: Recommendation on football facilities in Jyväskylä.
The respondents to the last question, which was about the recommendations
on the facilities in Jyväskylä, gave a lot of constructive feedback. There were
advices on different subjects such as investment, commercialization, facilities,
education, location and maintenance of football facilities in Jyväskylä.
However, the biggest recommendation percentage was on building new
facilities (44, 2 %) and improving the maintenance of the existing ones (25,
6%). Also, half of the respondents mentioned that there are two outdoor
football fields near Kortepohja area which is called Vehkalampi football field.
One of them could be covered to meet the demand of the teams for the winter
season because the location and the artificial grasses are suitable for training
there.
38
6.2 Interview results
First, two professionals with expert opinions who are a former JJK`s
professional football player and Finnish football & futsal referee were
interviewed. Each interview took approximately 30 minutes. The respondents
had many different ideas about the football situation in Jyvaskyla because
they have been active participants there for a long time. There were three
different aspects, adaptation, problem solving and encouragement
emphasized by the respondents during the interview. Correlation between
these three aspects is shown in the following figure:
Interview figure 1: Three different aspects that can improve the indoor football
facilities in Jyvaskyla (Ates, 2014)
According to the interview, adaptation including facilities, climate, opinions,
aspects and differences is the most important subject about improving football
and the related facilities because winter is really harsh in Finland which makes
it difficult to adapt football to these conditions. Accordingly, there must be
better indoor facilities to improve the quality of Finnish football. Furthermore,
football is popular as participatory sports but not so popular as spectator sport
in Finland. Therefore, the adaptation of football to the culture and climate is
essential for future improvements.
39
Secondly, problem solving which includes recommendation, international
relations and educations is another vital factor that can be effective in
improving football in Finland. There were many recommendations that
mentioned by the respondents such as a full size indoor football facility in
Jyvaskyla, converting one of the Vehkalampi football fields and modifying the
old ones to improve the facilities. Also, international relations were mentioned
by the respondents as important sources of the different point of view of
players or coaches from other countries. And then, local players and
foreigners can learn from each other and improve their performance. The last
point in problem solving was that young coaches are generally working as
volunteers and they do not have the motivation to improve themselves. If the
Finnish football association can offer them a good education we might have
more talented young players.
Thirdly, encouragement was also mentioned many times in the interview
which requires more involvement of people to football as their hobby. It is
known that hobbies are expensive in Finland, if families want to send their
children to a football team, then they have to pay for it. Therefore, involvement
is not high because all the families cannot afford to give their children this
opportunity. This also why there is no football culture in society. If football was
a free or cheaper hobby, there would be more involvement in society which
could lead to better players and greater popularity of football. All the above
factors are effective tools for improving the status football in the Jyväskylä
regions which could be a good example for other cities considering the quality
of Finnish football.
7. Reliability / Validity
The reliability and validity issues of an experimental study are essential since
they provide information on credibility for the thesis. “Fundamentally, reliability
concerns the extent to which an experiment, test, or any measuring procedure
yields the same results on repeated trials” (Carmines & Zeller, 1979, 1.) On
the other hand, validity concerns more about relationship between concept
40
and indicator. It is more difficult to have reliability and validity in qualitative
research than quantitative because in quantitative research, there are large
amounts of numbers of data and people that can be transformed into useable
statistic. However, qualitative research provides insights into the problem or
helps to develop ideas or hypotheses for potential quantitative research. “This
relates to the concept of a good quality research when reliability is a concept
to evaluate quality in quantitative study with a “purpose of explaining” while
quality concept in qualitative study has the purpose of “generating
understanding” “(Stenbacka 2001, 551.)
In order to make sure validity of the interview and its result, only experts with a
certain status such as former professional football player and official referee
with multiple years of experience in the football field and overall good
knowledge base on the subject were chosen. A good qualitative study can
help us “understand a situation that would otherwise be enigmatic or
confusing” (Eisner 1991, 58).
In addition, semi-professional football players who know the situation in
Jyvaskyla about the indoor facilities took part in survey questionnaire.
However, those belonging to the target groups were not interested in taking
part in this research. The reason seems to be that most of the respondents
were students, who were working at the same time. Therefore, they could not
have time to respond to the survey questionnaire. However, enough
responses (30) were received, which was sufficient for the research purposes.
All the above aspects were taken into consideration in this research study.
However, based on the target groups of this survey`s questionnaire which was
about people` opinions on indoor football facilities, respondents think
development of Finnish football may come with indoor football facilities in near
future. This also could affect the outcomes of national Finnish football team
which could raise their level of success both nationally and internationally.
For the future research, football players` and professional` points of views on
the situation would be recommended to be gathered in 5 or 10 years so that
the results can be benefited according to the Finnish football needs. The
survey questionnaire which was already mentioned can be applied to different
41
target groups and research data can be bigger to have more trustful
understanding.
8. SWOT Analysis of indoor Football facilities in Jyväskylä based on
qualitative research results
SWOT is an acronym which stands for strength; weakness; opportunity and
threats. SWOT is a toll to assess a business or a proposition. This should not
be restricted to a business you own, but also to use it for your competitor’s
business (G Fine, p8). This business tools can help company or any
organization to see whether current situation of the business or industry is
going well or not.
There are so many different aspects in this thesis case that need to be
considered when it is evaluated about the attitudes and perceptions of users
on indoor football facilities and continuous training places because the ideas
of each individuals are affected by different elements such as price, location or
accessibility. However, the easiest way of narrowing down of these elements
was using SWOT analyses which enable this research to find out
opportunities and threat. “Important decisions are made every day by each of
us. There are times when we have to make a quick judgment, and we will
base those decisions on the information we have available. Yet, there are
other times when we have to look at lots of different factors available, and this
is one of the times when we need to use a SWOT analysis” (G Fine, p4). That
is why; SWOT analysis would cover all those aspects by showing strength,
weakness, opportunity and threat of indoor football facilities in Jyväskylä. The
following appendix simply explains SWOT analysis tolls:
42
FIGURE 10: SWOT (ConceptDraw, 2014)
8.1 Strengths:
These are the positive factors of indoor football facilities that enable industry
or organization to have advantages over others within control. “These internal
strengths help to either exploit potentials and opportunities or they may be an
asset to ward off threats and potential difficulties “(Schall, p5).
 High demand for indoor football in young generation
 High profit
 Good management system
 Growing popularity of football
 Multiple purpose use of facilities
 Quality of artificial grass
9.2 Weaknesses:
These can be considered the negative factors showing which area of
organization should be improved. “An internal condition which supports the
reduction of the factors which erode the consultant’s competitive position in
43
the consultancy industry or the weakness hampers the effective exploitation of
the existing or future market opportunities” (Schall, p5).
 Not enough indoor football facilities
 Time scheduling
 Ineffective use of facilities
 Cost of building facilities
 Not enough funds to be invested in football facilities
 Long distance from the city center
 High prices
8.3 Opportunities:
These show what we have in order to expand our current facilities and how it
should be utilized and expanded. Opportunities are generated by different
environments. If the process is maintained well, the advantages of
environment can be improved and profit can be maximized.
 Long winter season
 Different activities can be organized in facilities
 Number of football teams in Jyvaskyla
 Less expensive, more customers
 Dealing with professional teams in order to get more customer for free
times
8.4 Threats:
These are external factors which can be controlled. It would be logical to be
well-aware of the new trends in the field in order to control the threats.”
Factors which need not be seen only from negative side, a threat can also be
a posed by an unfavorable situation in the environment” (Schall, p6).
44
 Facility should be built for multi-purpose where different sports groups
can be attracted
 Energy expenses
 High taxes
 Variable costs
 Competitors` facilities
9. Discussion on the reliability of the research and future research areas
The ideas exchanged with football players and professionals were one of the
main factors that can be found in the research and that is the most important
aspect to see how people think about current situation.
The feedback which was received from different targets not only told where
the development of indoor football is at but also clarified what should be done
to improve people` satisfaction and quality of facilities. After that, feedbacks
indicated the people` expectations vs. experiences over the development
processes.
Although, there were three different target groups in this research, it would be
much more effective if Finnish football association also involve in the research
and receive more feedback from different locations and target groups.
Furthermore, all the information that would be gathered in further research
could be good evidence to raise authorities’ awareness in lack of indoor
football facilities for people who need continues training place to improve their
talents.
The same application which was used in this research process about indoor
football facilities could be applied again in future research to find out if there
are major changes over the years because the process may take from 5 to 10
years.
45
10. Conclusion and Discussion
The primary aim of this research was to find out different target groups`
perceptions of and satisfaction with the quality of indoor football facilities in the
city of Jyväskylä. In order to be able to gather valuable and reliable data for
the thesis, it was relevant to explore those players’ attitudes that are using
indoor football facilities.
According to the research, it shows that Finnish athletes preferred to do
individual sports such as running or skiing in the past because there were not
enough facilities to do team sports. However, this situation has changed over
the years because team’s sports such as ice hockey or football became more
popular in Finland. Ice hockey developed well with facilities and all the other
supportive tools. On the other hand, football also developed remarkably in
Finland but it could not improve as much as other countries because three
different aspects that facilitate football which are climate, culture and finance
did not support football in Finland. Moreover, the main reason was that
players were not able to play four months because of cold winter season. The
solution to this problem is indoor football facilities where players can train in
winter season without taking a break. Indoor football facilities with artificial
grass can be found many cities of Finland but numbers of facilities are not
even close to meet the demand because there are many teams in each cities
and high demand from young generation which requires more indoor facilities
to provide those better places to train for whole year round.
There are many aspects that are positive side of Finnish football which
encourage football association to develop football and facilities. Firstly, there
are high demands for football in young generation which encourage
authorities to assist with new indoor facilities for young generation because
number of adult players in central Finland is (1220) but this number is almost
four times bigger if it is considered for under 19 years old (4783) (Palloliitto,
2014). Moreover, since there are high demands for the indoor facilities, there
is a high possibility to profit because there are not many facilities in central
Finland and if there would be new facilities with multi-purpose, the owner
would maximize its profit with both football and other sports. Also, long winter
46
season would be plus for this kind of facilities because athletes have to train
inside until the weather get better to train outside. On the other hand, there
are also weaknesses of indoor football facilities but it occurs if it is not
managed well, located far from center, expensive prices and cost of facilities.
However, all these negative aspects can be disappeared, if it is considered
and managed well, then all the needs of the players would be met by the
facilities.
In summary, the respondents’ answers for the survey and interview, especially
supported the hypothesis about the lack of indoor football facilities in
Jyväskylä and about people`s satisfaction with and experiences of the existing
facilities. The respondents also thought that building new indoor facilities for
football can affect Finnish football positively and minimize the negative effects
of the winter season.
In addition, the respondents also clarified the problems, for example that most
football players are unhappy about their performance which is negatively
affected by the cold winter season. Nonetheless, the respondents gave so
many positive recommendations such as converting some of the old outside
pitches to indoor football facilities, for the city administration to build a multipurpose hall as community service and to find some funds to build new ones
at good location. As the main themes that came out from research was that
there is a problem to train in winter season and there has to be more indoor
facilities to give opportunities to young football generation to improve their
talent and quality of football. However, the finance seems to be the biggest
problem for investment of football in Finland since it is considered only as
summer sport. This might be changed cooperation between football
association and the Veikkausliiga to have better quality because stadiums are
old fashioned and the fans` mindset is not ready for a longer football season
unless the outside temperature is more than 20 degrees. Therefore, this
mindset should change because young generation is interested in football and
they should be provided better and appropriate places where they can train
whole year round. And then, success might come in a long run with the young
generation which train as much as other players from different countries.
However, it seems that it might take more than a few years for us to see the
47
effects of the new generation of young football players to make football more
popular.
Moreover, according to the respondents, it is said that this issue has been
discussed for a long time but no action has yet been taken by the football
authorities. However, the increasing popularity of and demand for football
among members of the young generation, will finally convert Finnish football
facilities into continuous training places to give players an opportunity to be
some of the next Finnish football legends as Jari Litmanen or Sami Hyypiä.
The results give hope for the future of Finnish football because people`
interest is increasing every day. The ice hockey culture will probably not
change completely but football can be as popular as ice hockey in this
country.
As for further studies, it would be also beneficial to do also quantitative
research about the subject to see different points of views of a large number
of people. Also, applying the survey questionnaire to different age groups or
girls` football players in the future could be good evidence to see their overall
satisfaction
48
REFERENCES
Ammon,Richard&Nagel, 2010. “Sport Facility Management “, West Virginia
University, America
Antti Iho & Jaakko Heikkilä, 2008. “Has selling tickets in advance increased
attendance in the Finnish football league”, University of Helsinki, Finland
Babatunde Wusu, 2013. “Player development guidebook for JJK Jyväskylä
football club”, Helsinki, Finland
Barriball & While, 1994. “Collecting data using a semi-structured interview: a
discussion paper”, King’s College London, Department of Nursing Studies,
London, England
Borland, J. & MacDonald, R. 2003. “Demand for Sport “, Oxford Review of
Economic Policy 19(4): 478-502.
Chris Johnson, “Indoor Soccer: The Benefits of Indoor Soccer” Soccer Expert
Christoph K. Streb, 2010, “Encyclopedia of Case Study Research: Exploratory
Case Study” Thousand Oaks, Berkeley, California.
"Customer Satisfaction Surveys: Maximizing Survey Responses." 24 Nov.
2010, Accessed on April 22, 2014 www.custominsight.com
Dana Lynn Driscoll, 2011 “Introduction to Primary Research: Observations,
Surveys, and Interviews”.
David R. Thomas 2006. “A General Inductive Approach for Analyzing
Qualitative Evaluation Data”, University of Auckland, New Zealand
Edward Carmines & Richard Zeller, 1979, “Reliability and validity assessment
“, Beverly Hills, London
Egan Richardson, Feb 27, 2009. “Gnistan sign co-operation deal with
Sheffield Wednesday”, Nordic Football news, Finland
Eisner, E. W. (1991). “The enlightened eye: Qualitative inquiry and the
enhancement of educational practice”. New York, NY: Macmillan Publishing
Company
Esto European Synthetic Turf Organization, 2014. “Synthetic Turf
development in Finland”, Brussels.
FIFA, 2014 “Football history “Accessed on February 25, 2014
http://www.fifa.com/classicfootball/history/
49
Golafshani, N. (2003). “Understanding reliability and validity in qualitative
research”, The Qualitative Report, 8(4), 597-606.
Hannu Itkonen & Arto Nevala, 2012. “A popular game in Father Christmas
Land? Football in Finland”, University of Eastern Finland, Joensuu, Finland
Harald Dolles & Sten Söderman, (2005) “Globalization of Sports - The Case of
Professional Football and its International Management Challenges”, Tokyo,
Japan
Hussein Ashatu 2009. “The use of Triangulation in Social Sciences Research:
Can qualitative and quantitative methods be combined?” University of Agder,
Norway
“Hockey too expensive for many Finnish kids, report says”, Accessed on May
9th, 2014. http://www.upi.com/Top_News/World-News/2014/04/11/Hockeytoo-expensive-for-many-Finnish-kids-report-says/6751397231657/
Information on Finnish Football structure, Accessed on March 3, 2014.
http://www.veikkausliiga.com/Statistic.aspx?id=6 http://www.palloliitto.fi/
Information on Ice hockey in Finland, Accessed on March 5, 2014.
http://www.finhockey.fi/info/in_english
“Increasing Physical activity” accessed on March 14th, 2014
www.Health.gov.com
Lawrence G Fine, 2009. “The SWOT Analysis, Using your Strength to
overcome Weaknesses, Using Opportunities to overcome Threats” by Kick It,
LLC
Mihály Szeróvay, February 2010. “Marketing Analysis of JJK Jyväskylä, A
First Division Football Club in Finland”. University of Jyväskylä, Finland
Mihály Szerovay, July 9, 2013. “Sport SponSorShip in finland: the caSe Study
of fc JJK JyväSKylä “, University of Jyväskylä, Finland
“One in five says cost has forced kids to give up a hobby”, Accessed on May
9, 2014.
http://yle.fi/uutiset/one_in_five_says_cost_has_forced_kids_to_give_up_a_ho
bby/6607009
Poliakoff, M. B. (1987). “Combat sports in the ancient world: Competition,
violence, and culture”. New Haven, CT: Yale University Press
Richard Giulianotti and Roland Robertso, 2004. “The globalization of football:
a study in the globalization of the ‘serious life’. London School of Economics
and Political Science, England
Robinson, L.A. (2008). The business of sport, in Sport and Society (2nd ed.),
Houlihan, B.M.J.H. (Ed.), London: Sage
50
Russell M. Church, 2001. “The Effective Use of Secondary Data” Brown
University, p33, 32–45.
Stenbacka, C. (2001). Qualitative research requires quality concepts of its
own. Management Decision, 39(7), 551-555
Schwarz, Hall, Shibi, 2010. “Sport Facility Operation management “, Oxford
England
Taylor-Powell, Hermann, May 2000. “Collecting Evaluation Data: Surveys
“Madison, Wisconsin, America
The Author Journal compilation, 2008 “Environmental characteristics relevant
to young people’s use of sports facilities: a review”, Bodø, Norway
The FA National Facilities Strategy 2013 – 2015, (2013) “Building, Protecting
and enhancing sustainable Football Facilities”
Von Franz & Schall, “Practitioner`s Guide: Strengths, Weaknesses,
Opportunities & Threat (SWOT) “
51
FIGURES:
FIGURE 1: Four pillars of Finnish Football (Van der Aar, May, 2011)
FIGURE 2: Finnish ice hockey`s development process map over year
FIGURE 3: Finnish football`s development process map over years
FIGURE 4: Jyväskylä`s location on Finland map
FIGURE 5: Blueprint of indoor football facilities in Jyvaskyla
FIGURE 6: Killeri indoor Football Jyväskylä
FIGURE 7: Reservation schedule of Killeri Indoor football
FIGURE 8: Service journey of Killeri indoor football facilities` customers
FIGURE 9: Hipposhalli convertible indoor football field
Survey Questionnaires FIGURES:
 Survey Figure 1: Gender
 Survey figure 2: Occupation
 Survey figure 3: Experience of respondent
 Survey figure 4: Respondent`s teams
 Survey figure 5: Best suited words for Finnish Football
 Survey figure 6: Best indoor Football facility
 Survey figure 7: Satisfaction on indoor Football experience
 Survey Figure 8: Schedule of indoor Football satisfaction
 Survey figure 9: Overall experience of indoor football in Jyvaskyla
 Survey figure 10: People` perception on train in winter season
 Survey figure 11: Effect of indoor football on player`s ability
 Survey figure 12: Can indoor Football facilities improve quality of
Finnish football
 Survey figure 13: Recommendation on football facilities in Jyväskylä.
Interview FIGURES:
 Interview Figure 1: Three different aspects that can improve indoor
football facilities in Jyvaskyla
FIGURE 10: SWOT Analyses (ConceptDraw, 2014
52
APPENDIXES
Appendix 1: Survey Questionnaires
1) What is your gender?
2) Which of the following best describes your current occupation?
3) How many years have you been playing football?
4) Are you member of any Football or Futsal team? If yes please specify
your team!
5) Can you describe Finnish football with best suited word? E.g (popular)
6) In your view what makes best indoor football facility?
7) Are there enough indoor football facilities (not futsal) to train in winter
season for Jyväskylä?
8) How do you feel about schedules of existing indoor football facilities in
Jyväskylä?
9) Please rate your overall experience of indoor football facilities for
Jyväskylä?
10)If there would be enough and better indoor facilities, would you like to
train in winter season?
11)Do you think building new indoor facilities for continuous training; can
improve football players` ability in general?
12)How do you think providing this kind of facilities affects quality of
Finnish football?
13)What kind of suggestion would you like to give to improve football
facilities in Jyväskylä?
53
Appendix 2: Interview questions and answers
Respondent 1 and 2:
1) What is your general opinion about Finnish football?
R1: Well, Finnish football has developed a lot last 10 or 15 years but if it is
compared to other countries, unfortunately they have developed more than
Finland. Therefore, level for football in Finland is not high compare to other
countries and mostly Finnish football can be considered as semi-professional.
Also, players cannot earn enough money even if they play in top division.
R2: Finnish football is kind of developing football and although Finland is rich
country, football culture is not so good. Football has not been the number one
sport in Finland but ice hockey has been. Earlier times, other sports were
popular like individual ones such as skiing, running and etc. and team sports
started to be popular maybe in 60`s or 70`s but still football was not popular
at that time. However, football has been very popular as participant sport but
not a spectator sport. Football became more global and also in Finland it is
getting more and more popular in terms of participation but in term of
spectator and interests it not popular yet. If it looked level of Finnish football,
they are around 50`s in FIFA`s ranking.
2) How do you think Finnish football can be improved?
R1: In my opinion, key point is competition because younger teams should
play harder games as possible which prepare them for more challenging
games. Also, I think that they have to be divided in different groups according
to their level such as better player play together and normal ones play with
each other’s. After that, competition can increase the level of Finnish football.
R2: First of all, I think that Finnish football has a chance to be better but you
have to take into consideration that Finland is a small country and it does not
have tropical weather, football culture .Also, it has been researched that what
are the good factor that makes football better are that GDP (Finland is okay),
size of the country (Finland is small) and tradition (Finland does not have
that). In those three it affects football a lot but Football association of Finland
54
doing very well to improve football like couching education which is going to
right direction but still need to be improved and facilities because you cannot
play football for whole year. If you think about football players who is 20 years
old and started to play football at the age of 8 and played for 12 years, every
year he or she was playing football only 8 months in 12 months. In 15 year
just multiply this 4 months with 15, it is kind of sad back so if you compare
other countries like Spain or Turkey, they play whole year round. If you
consider this for couching as well, he has less experience because they can
play less time. Facilities, couching education are the most important. In
Finland couching system is voluntarily but now it is changing to shifting system
because even junior team, there are professionals are working in the club as
head coach for example. It was like civil activity and now it is going right
direction. Also minister of education gives some kind of support that you can
get some money for education. Also there are some young couches that are
not experienced; they get some kind of pocket money. One more thing is also
that international relations are quite important relates to couching. For
example, young couch can go abroad and get experience or foreign coaches
can come here to participant some seminar, congress. For example there
have been some coaches from Barcelona and Ajax in Finland. Let`s see how
teams improve junior team because there is a tendency for professional
coaches and employees so if you just have look at the improvement and
development of the performance, you definitely need more professional
coaches. On the other hand, I have a critical approach because also prices
are more expensive for parents. In Finland, there is a big discussion that all
kind of sports are getting more expensive and if you want to involve more and
more people like public sports then it should be cheaper but dilemma is if you
want to have better coaches, you have to pay for that and it is not easy to
solve this problem. Government gives some kind of support but it is still not
enough
3) How would you describe indoor football facilities in Jyvaskyla?
R1: One word to describe indoor facilities would be “poor”. We have some
facilities but they are not even close to good enough. For example, in Killeri
indoor football field turf is good but it is not big enough and there are not
dressing rooms or shower. In Hipposhalli, there are dressing rooms but the
55
turf is so hard and field is too small so it is not good for competitive teams.
Also, multi-use of Hipposhalli is good and efficient but it is cannot be reserved
all the time.
R2: Yes, indoor football facilities in Jyvaskyla definitely are not enough. If you
think about that there is a professional team but this year they for 1st division,
there is no full size indoor football facilities in Jyvaskyla where official games
also can be played. It has been that official games in winter time, JJK had to
go some other cities to play. At the moment there is only Killeri which is good
for practicing and junior teams but it is not own by the city, it is private facility
and it has a monopoly situation. Although some team has some deal to player
there, it is still expensive and there are many teams in central Finland over 50
so it is not enough for all of them at all. Also there is a Hipposhalli, but there is
only certain days that can be played otherwise it is a running truck and surface
of the football field is hard and burning your skin. However, there is possibility
that outside pitch where is called Vehkalampi might be covered for next winter
but it is not official yet.
4) Do you think that current indoor football facilities meet demand of
the teams from Jyvaskyla?
R1: No it doesn’t because there is not enough training shift for all the teams.
And also, there is no full size indoor field with turf in Jyvaskyla. Best
accessible times in Killeri are reserved by the JJK junior’s teams because they
have money and resources to reserve the place in winter season which is
current best indoor football in Jyvaskyla.
R2: It is already answered in question 3.
5) How are the demands for football in younger generation?
R1: I think that the amount of young football players in central Finland will not
increase much maybe just a little but that would be all.
R2: Finnish youngster are doing a lot of physical activities until age of 12, but
until the age of 18 football is the most popular sports to practice now. I think I
can say it for sure because I have checked it from official statistics.
56
6) How important to build new indoor football facilities for Finnish
football? Can this increase quality in general?
R1: Yes, if we have full size indoor football facilities with good turf in central
Finland, quality of the training would make a big leak in central Finland. This
can affect national level maybe little bit but not so much in general.
R2: I was mentioning that quality is definitely should be improved on the
other hand it should be though that does everyone has a chance to
participate to activities and everyone should be given a change to practice so
solution need to be found about level need to be improved but at the same
time for everyone. However, it is really challenging task. Also, it is important to
have indoor facilities, I am not sure situation in other cities but in Turku,
Helsinki area they have enough but in Oulu they are also complaining that
they do not have enough indoor facilities. At the moment there is an economic
crisis still, and municipalities do not have so much money and try to save
money by cutting from sports and other activities. For example city of
Jyvaskyla is giving support for the clubs, maybe around 2 to 5 thousand yearly
but this number is going down. Therefore, when you think about improving
facilities, it is about money, priorities and you have to find some kind of ways
financing these facilities. The way can be cooperation between public and also
municipalities can involve as well but there is a crisis for companies as well.
Also, Jyvaskyla still has a chance because football association is planning to
Jyvaskyla to be city for coaching centre so that it can create better chances for
the facilities because funding is not ready for that kind of facilities but if they
decide to that in Jyvaskyla, it might be easier to get companies to fund
facilities because the facilities that we have now are not enough that there
should be more facilities with dressing rooms and stuff like that. If Vehkalampi
is covered, it can be good solution to right direction.
7) What are the biggest factors that prevent Finnish football to
develop as much as other European countries?
R1: Finnish players are not playing competitive enough and training seasons
are longer than competition season. At least competition season should be
longer to improve quality. Or there can be summer season league and winter
57
season league to make competitive season longer but obviously it requires
more indoor facilities in order to do that.
R2: If I go back little bit early that I mentioned about sociology, culture has to
change. Certain sports were popular earlier because Finland location is in the
north and it has an impact of climate, facilities are not good so doing individual
sports were much easier. Also tradition that I talked about, success depend on
the how rich is the country and how many games the national team played,
what kind of coach the teams had, international relations are easy now but in
1920 ,geographically, It was not easy to involve other people from different
countries. For example, Finland is always compare to Sweden, Sweden is
little bit closer to central Europe and little bit different financing for football as
well but in term of coaches, they had coaches from England, Hungary and
other country earlier than Finland and of course this also affects the situation
of improvement in Finland.
8) What would you recommend about indoor football facilities in
Jyvaskyla?
R1: If we want to be respectable football region in Finland, full size indoor
football facilities must be constructed as soon as possible. Existing facilities
are doing well with their resources but Hipposhalli turf can be renewed with
better turf to be better. And also there must be at least one more full size
football field for winter season.
R2: As I said that if Vehkalampi converted to indoor facilities which can be
good option. Although it is not easy situation, city does his best because when
they are dividing the shift for teams they are trying to be really fair that
everybody has a chance to train. And when Vehkalampi is converted they
have to count as well if the times scheduling are enough for all teams or not. I
think that still it would not be enough, because of course, most accessible
shits are after 16:00 o clock, not so many hours in a week, so probably there
should be more shifts which require building new ones. However, like I said
financial situation is not good so, probably public and government should
cooperate to build facilities like building ice hockey field Synergy Arena. In
football, it is quite different because we talk about so many small clubs which
would be difficult to organize and cooperate to build new facilities.