1
Report or Thesis Title：Investigation on current situationof trainingand development of football referees in Meizhou City
ChuTing
Bachelor’s Thesis
2
Degree Programme inSports Coaching andManagement
2023
3
Abstract
Author(s)
ChuTing Li
Degree
Degree Programme in Sports Coaching and Management
Report/Thesis Title
Investigation on current situation of training and development of football referees inMeizhouCity
Number of pages and appendix pages
25 + 8
Abstract
With the introduction of China's national policy "sports power", the Chinese people arepayingmore and more attention to football. At the same time, the number of football matches inChina is gradually increasing, and the demand for sanctions against football matches is alsoincreasing. Football referees are an important force for the long-term development of football, and also an important referee of football matches. The improvement of the traininganddevelopment of football referees is of great help to the better development of football
matches.This paper now studies the training and development status of football refereesinMeizhou city, which is known as the "hometown of football", as the research objects: choosingliterature and data method, questionnaire survey method, logical analysis method andinterview method as the research methods. Analysis of the basic situation of the football
referee team in Meizhou city, the contents of the training of football referees, the trainingmethods of football referees, the motivation of football referees, the assessment of football
referees, and the thorough understanding of the problems in the training and development offootball referees. In view of the problems, we put forward reasonable improvement planstopromote the development of football referees, find out the main factors affecting thedevelopment of football referees from the source, and then promote the further improvementof the training and development of football referees. Key words
Football referee, Training, Development situation
4
Table of contents
1 Introduction 11.1 Research objectives 21.2 Research schedule 22 Definition concepts 42.1 Football referee 42.1.1 Judge power 52.1.2 Football referee rules to grasp 62.2 Professional ethics of a football referee 72.2.1 The qualities that football referees should have 83 Research objects and methods 103.1 Study subjects 103.2 Research method 103.2.1 Literature study 103.2.2 Survey methods 103.2.3 Interview method 113.2.4 Data statistics method 114 Study results and analysis 134.1 Analysis of the basic situation of referees in football College of Jiaying College134.1.1 Sex distribution of football referees in the Football College of Jiaying College134.1.2 Distribution of referees of football Academy 134.1.3 Motivation for selecting the referee work 144.1.4 Experience in football sports 154.2 The ruling status of football referees of Jiaying College 164.2.1 Judge level 164.2.2 Working time as a referee 174.4.3 Specialized in football referee training experience 184.4.4 The type of adjudication competition 185 Conclusion 206 Improvement strategy 216.1 Improve comprehensive capabilities 216.2 Improve psychological quality 216.3 Standardize the professional quality 217 Discussion and suggestions 238 Evaluation of the study 25
5
References 26Appendices 1Appendix 1. 1A questionnaire survey of football referees 1Appendix 2. 4
6
1 Introduction
In recent years, in the national emphasis on sports and development, various sports inour
country had obvious good development environment and development space, followedbythedevelopment of sports and sports talent cultivation, to promote our sports and national healthhas a positive influence (Zou Haichao, 2021). Football, as the most influential sport amongsports, is deeply loved by people and has a large crowd base and a huge number of fans. Inthefootball game, the integrity between the players and the sports skills, the confrontationbetween the players and the variability of the game make the football game more enjoyable. Football competition requires not only the competition of football players frombothsides, butalso the competition of fair and just excellent football referees. In the football matches, thefootball referee has multiple roles, which plays a very important role in the football matches. With the development of football, various kinds of competitions have followed, andthedemand for football referees has greatly increased the (Zhang Weiwei,2021).The developmentof football needs to first cultivate sufficient reserve talent base, and then need the
development of sufficient football activities and sports events, so as to consolidate theenvironmental foundation of football sports, and further enhance the heat( Gang Liang, LiuShuai,2019) of football sports through activities and competitions. Football games cannot beseparated from the excellent football referee management(Bai Jinbiao.,2018). Therefore, whiledeveloping football talents for football sports, it is also necessary to ensure the adequacyof
football referees and improve the professional level of football referees.In order to adapt tothedevelopment of football sports, many places have carried out the training of football referees, so as to improve the demand for the development of football referees and improve theprofessional technical level of football referees. Meizhou city is a key city of national football
development. Football referees are an important force for the long-termdevelopment of
football, and also an important referee of football matches. Meizhou Football Associationactively responded to the training of national football referees, and trained and providedyoungreserve forces for the referee work department. This paper is based on the traininganddevelopment of football referees in Meizhou city as the object, and explores the existingproblems and gives suggestions for scientific and reasonable improvement.Throughthesurvey,
it is found that the new forces of Meizhou Football Association are basically fromthefootball
College students of Meizhou Jiaying College, so a questionnaire survey was conductedontheFootball College of Meizhou Jiaying College. Here are the questions I have prepared for.1. Sex distribution of football referees in theFootball
College of Jiaying College.2. Grade distribution of referees in football Academy.3. Choosethe
7
motivation of the referee work.4. Football sports experience.5. Judge level.6. Workingtimeasareferee.7. Specialized in football referee training experience.8. The average annual
participation of the referees per year.9. General type of adjudication competition. 1.1 Research objectives
My topic selection background is that Meizhou city, where I was born, is known as the"Hometown of Football", and it is one of the 44 key campus football talent trainingbasesinChina. In 2018, it was selected as the national Youth Campus Football ReformExperimental
Base. Meizhou is the birthplace of modern football in China. It has a history of more than100years and has a profound history, culture and mass foundation. With the launch of national
policy sports power, people increasingly high attention to football, so football also increased, the football referees number and professional degree have higher requirements, inorder toadapt to the development, the training of football referees, hope to improve the professional
level of football referees, to cultivate more excellent referees for the purpose. However, inthecase of a large population base, in Meizhou city, the number of football referees is not
considerable, but also in the process of exploration. At this stage, the training of football
referees is not rich enough, which affects the training of football referee team. The trainingofthe football referee team in Meizhou County, Meizhou City is not optimistic, mainly for theimperfect training content of the training frequency, the talent fault, the seriously declininglevel, and the poor quality of the referees to hinder the training and construction of thefootball
referee team. The paper hopes that through the research and analysis of the training and development statusof football referees in Meizhou city, more people in Meizhou city can showtheir styleonthefootball field, and provide more theoretical basis for the training of football referees inour city, so as to promote the further development of football in our city. It can further promotethedevelopment of the training of the football referee team, enhance the professional level of thetraining football referee team and the enthusiasm of the referees to participate, increasethenumber of referees, and promote the better training and development of the football refereeteam in our city.
8
1.2 Research schedule
The study started in mid-September 2023 and ended in November 2023. The purposeanddirection of this study were determined in September 2023. In October this year, I
systematically studied the rules of football competition, understood the status of refereesinMeizhou Football Association and investigated and studied the current situation of football
referees in sports College of Meizhou Jiaying College. In October, I determined the researchmethod, and then I used the comparison method, the survey method, and the interviewmethod. In October, I conducted a survey (appendix) to the football referees of The SportsCollege of Meizhou College and a telephone visit to Xiong Zhihai, the football coachof JiayingCollege. I summarized and analyzed the research results of this study.
9
2 Definition concepts
2.1 Football referee
The work of a football referee originated in the first half of the 19th century, when therewereno referees in English school football matches, and the decisions for fouls were carriedout bythe captains of both sides. The captain's power includes the ability to foul players off thefield. But when there is a dispute, both sides always have their own reasons and cannot reachaconsensus. With the development of football, in the process of playing football, whentwoteams have conflicts and disputes, it becomes an urgent requirement to set up a neutral
mediator who can be impartial and make a fair judgment immediately. In 1863, refereesappeared on the football field, but only by the law outside the court, not on the field, andonlyby shouts and gestures. Later, the referee changed the law.
In 1875, a football match was held in a British city, with a policeman serving as a referee. During the game, the two sides argued, and the audience also poured into the stadium. Seeingthe game to become a big mess, the referee took out a siren and played a long sound, andsuddenly the audience was silent. He noted as the supreme ruler of the game howtheball
should be handled, the players from both sides obeyed the ruling and the game continued. Theaudience also calmed down and enjoyed the game with great interest. The unexpectedeffectinspired the organizers of the football match, and the referee followed the whistle. By1891, there were 1,000 professional teams in Britain, and the outcome of the football teamwasdirectly related to the economic income and the honor of the club, so higher requirementswere put forward for the work of referees. At a FIFA council meeting in Glasgowthis year, thereferee was the sole agent of the game. Later, the referee changed fromstandingoutsidethelaw enforcement to the field, and followed the ball in the middle of the players, twosidereferees as patrol members, holding the patrol flag in hand, to assist the referee work.(SunBaojie , 2005)
The referee is the person responsible for enforcing the rules of the game in a football match. There are at least four referees, referees, two assistant referees (linesman) and a fourthofficial
in an official football match. The referee has the final discretion of all the facts relatedtothegame and is the only official on the court entitled to start and stop the game and toimposedisciplinary action on the players during the game. In most cases, the referee is assistedbyatleast two assistant referees, an assistant referee or the person who assists the refereeinthecontrol of the game in a football match. However, the decision of the assistant refereeisnotbinding, and the referee has the right to overturn the proposal of the assistant referee.(Baidu)
10
According to article 5 of the "Measures for the Administration of Referees in Sports
Competition", football referees are divided into international level, national level, level 1, level 2and level 3. Those who have obtained the certification of referee technical level of international
individual sports organizations are collectively referred to as international referees. Most of thestudents of Jiaying College are in the second and third level referees, and a fewfirst level
referees. Among them, the technical level certification standard of the third-level refereesisaChinese citizen over 18 years old, with a high school education or above, who can master andapply the competition rules and judging methods of this project, and have passed thetrainingand assessment.(Measures for the Administration of Referees in Sports Competition)
In each official football match, a team of a chief referee, two assistant referees andafourthofficial is responsible for the decision of the match. On July 21,2010, FIFA adopted a formal
resolution to implement a six-referee system in the 2010-11 UEFA Champions Leagueandbeyond, adding two bottom line referees to help the law, in an effort to reduce the rampant
miscalculation on the pitch. 2.1.1 Judge power
Wang Riqing (Science and Technology Information, 2012) believes that the referee is the"judge" on the court. In football matches, the referee's referee plays an important roleinthewhole game. There are four problems in the football process in China: rule grasp, actionrecognition, psychological quality and moral accomplishment. The influence of one or several
of the problems often causes the misjudgment and omission of the referees, whichhas aserious impact on the results of the game and affects the development of Chinese football
career to a greater extent. When the football referee enters the playing field, By the end of the game, The benchhavetheright to call, Including the dead ball and at halftime; Changing your decision can only bemadebefore the game resumes; When the assistant referee or a fourth official is unable toworkproperly, The right to stop its work or replace it; Determine whether to play accordingtotheconditions around the venue or the weather and the influence of the audience; Havetherightto stop the match or move to off-site treatment; To approve the ball, Ensure that theequipment of the team members meets the regulations; Grasp the "favorable" situation, Donotmake a penalty favorable to the foul team; With more than one foul occurring at thesametime, For a heavier foul; Use red and yellow cards in time according to the fouls of the players; For
11
cases not seen, Ask the assistant referees to make their own decisions.(Football CompetitionRules, 2021 / 2022)
2.1.2 Football referee rules to grasp
The duty of the referee is to perform the rules of the game and ensure that football matchesare played under fair conditions. This is the main reason for the presence of referees onthefootball field. In the early days of football, there were no referees, and any dispute onthefieldwas decided by the captains of both sides through discussion. By the late 19th century, whenfootball became more popular and more competitive, referees appeared on the court. Thevalidity period of the referee: from the time when the referee enters the field and beforeleaving the court at the end of the game. The referees exercise their rights to officials, players, substitute players, spectators, field equipment, weather, etc. All the circumstances that donotmeet the requirements of the rules should be managed by the referee. When the refereesexercise their rights, the degree of grasp. For example: Duty require your player to stopplayingimmediately when seriously injured, but the severity of the injury is determined by thereferee.(Analysis of the Football Competition Rules）
12
Figure 1 Basic gestures of football referees(photo source: Sohu)
13
2.2 Professional ethics of a football referee
The work of football referees is not simple, requiring not only good physical quality, strongpsychological quality and various knowledge, but also high professional requirements for thesensitive consciousness and judgment ability of football. Qualified football referees cannot
only master the professional knowledge of football and the theoretical knowledge of referees, but also require the ability to awareness and judge of football. They can be familiar tousethese knowledge on the pitch, have a stable psychological state and a clear mind tomakeafairand just judgment for the game. Huang Wenhuan and Tian Jianqiang (Brief the professional ethics of football referees，2011)
believe that professional ethics refers to the code of conduct and norms that peopleengagedin a certain profession must follow in their professional activities. Different professional normsand norms are different, combined with the characteristics of the profession to formaprofessional ethics and moral consciousness and standards. The image, level, fairness of thereferee and his words and deeds in the crowd, if he violates the moral standards, peoplehavea negative impression on him; on the contrary, if he shows excellent skill, high moral standardsand fair decisions, he has a good evaluation of him.As a football referee, you want toenforcethe law fairly and strictly abide by the rules. If you deliberately take sides on the court, thelawenforcement is unfair, which is the lack of minimum professional ethics and violates thefairness of law enforcement. Referees should have a serious, impartial law enforcement, excellence, clean, clean and other professional ethics. Referee the formation and developmentof professional ethics, can not be achieved overnight, is to pass long-term, hard trainingtogradually form, more important solution is the referee's self-discipline, self supervision, self-discipline, from themselves, give full play to the fundamental role of internal cause, plustheChinese football association effective management, effective measures, proper methods, majesty of legal warning to strengthen excellent football referee team. 2.2.1 The qualities that football referees should have
Good will and quality. Psychology tells of the ability of will quality to overcome all kinds of
difficulties and disturbances. Many judges wanted to be an impartial "black judge" fromthevery beginning. But often things backfire, investigate the reason, weak will quality, poor antiinterference ability is a very important reason.
14
A wide range of attention. Attention is a psychological phenomenon of people, whichisthedirection and concentration of psychological activities to a certain object. Persistent attentional stability. The stability of attention means that people's attentionisconcentrated on some thing or activity for a long time and is stable in a certain object. Areferee's ability to play a game depends on a variety of factors, one of the important factorsisto see whether his attention is stable. If attention is paid to stability, the external interference(coaches, players, spectators, etc.) on the impact of the referee to the minimum, will makethereferee's attention focus on blowing the game.
15
3 Research objects and methods
3.1 Study subjects
This paper mainly focuses on the football referees of the Football College of MeizhouJiayingCollege. 3.2 Research method
3.2.1 Literature study
According to "the cultivation and development of Meizhou city football referee" for theresearch purpose in 360 encyclopedia and China know online search "campus football referee""Meizhou city Chinese football association" "Meizhou Jiaying College bar football College"
"football referee training development" and other keywords, in the library access tobooksabout football referee, such as "sports competition referee management method", thesportscompetition referee management method, the modern football referee, such as datacollection, fully and correctly understand and grasp the research problems and methods. 3.2.2 Survey methods
According to the survey and statistics of Meizhou City football referee information:
There are 55 national first-level referees, including 42 male referees and 13 female referees. There are 26 national level-2 referees, including 24 male referees and 2 female referees. Thereare 6 national third-level referees, 5 female referees and 1 male referee. There are 40non-level
referees, including 24 male referees and 16 female referees. According to the survey andstudyof football referee information in Meizhou city, the proportion of male and female football
referees is about 3:1. Among the national first-level referees are students of JiayingCollege, and the national second-level referees, national third-level referees and non-level refereesareall students of Jiaying College. It can be seen that the referees of Meizhou Football Associationare mainly students in the Sports College of Jiaying College.Therefore, I hereby issuequestionnaires to students from the Physical Education College of Jiaying College, Meizhoucity, to conduct a deeper investigation into the current situation of football referees.
16
3.2.3 Interview method
Through visiting and talking with the football referees, teachers, experts, students whoareinterested in football referees and students who have been football referees in the game, inorder to better understand and analyze the current situation of the training and developmentof football referees in Meizhou Jiaying College Football College. 3.2.4 Data statistics method
According to the survey and statistics of Meizhou City football referee information:
There are 55 national first-level referees, including 42 male referees and 13 female referees. There are 26 national level-2 referees, including 24 male referees and 2 female referees. Thereare 6 national third-level referees, 5 female referees and 1 male referee. There are 40non-level
referees, including 24 male referees and 16 female referees. According to the survey andstudyof football referee information in Meizhou city, the proportion of male and female football
referees is about 3:1. Among the national first-level referees are students of JiayingCollege, and the national second-level referees, national third-level referees and non-level refereesareall students of Jiaying College. It can be seen that the referees of Meizhou Football Associationare mainly students in the Sports College of Jiaying College. Table 1 Distribution of football referees in Meizhou City Football AssociationNumber of
people
Man WomanNational level referee 55 42 13
National second-level
referee
26 24 2
National tertiary
referee
6 1 5
17
No level 40 24 16
18
4 Study results and analysis
4.1 Analysis of the basic situation of referees in football College of Jiaying College4.1.1 Sex distribution of football referees in the Football College of Jiaying CollegeAs can be seen from Table 2, the gender difference of the football referee reserve teamof
Meizhou Jiaying College is large. Among them, there were 41 boys, accounting for 82%, while9were girls, accounting for 18%. The ratio of male to female students is close to 4:1, whichcanbe seen that the gender ratio in the current football referee team is seriously unbalanced. Withthe guidance of Xi Jinping's socialist thought of being a sports power in the newera, peoplepay more attention to football, more and more campuses form football matches, andmoreandmore women's teams appear and participate in leagues, which marks the increasingdemandfor female football referees. Therefore, Meizhou Football Association should cooperatewithJiaying College to increase the training of female football referees to meet the needs of thecompetition. Table 2 Gender survey of football referees in Football College of Meizhou Jiaying College4.1.2 Distribution of referees of football Academy
It can be seen from the Table 3 that the grade distribution of referees in Jiaying Collegeof
Meizhou City is different. The number of senior football referees is 6, accounting for 12%, 9,18%, 31,62%, and the senior football referees is 4, accounting for 8%. It can be seenfromthegrade distribution analysis that the majority of junior football referees, accounting for ahighSex Number of people %
Man 41 82
Woman 9 18
Total 50 100
19
proportion. Therefore, it can be learned that at present, the grade distribution of football
referees in Meizhou Jiaying College is not uniform, and the number of football referees infirstand sophomore years is too small, which is not conducive to the development of football
referees and is not conducive to promoting the better training of football referees. Table 3 Survey of referees in Football College of Jiaying College
4.1.3 Motivation for selecting the referee work
As shown in table 4, students to participate in the cultivation of football referee in a great
extent on the quality of football referees to participate in training, football referees candevelopreasonable training motivation, not only can let it have a more clear purpose and trainingdirection, also can let the referee through reasonable participation motivation, to further
improve their participation in football referee professional training results (Yu Xueliang,2022,38(1): 89-91). It is of great significance to cultivate the correct and good motivation of football
referees, which is not only a factor related to their training quality, but also an important
content to reflect the views and cognition of football referees on training. Coaches canfurtheranalyze and manage according to the motivation of students' football referees. NowMeizhoucity jia should college sports football referees to participate in training motivation, subjectiveconsciousness and to their professional quality level desire and ideas, to a large extent tothereferee to participate in the training results has a great influence, at the same time thelackofsubjective awareness and their professional quality level of desire and ideas to a largeextenttothe improvement of the football referees team training huge obstacles.
Grade Number of people %Freshman 6 12
Sophomore 9 18
Junior 31 62
Senior 4 8
Total 50 100
20
Table 4 Survey on the motivation of Football referees in Jiaying College (multiple selection)
4.1.4 Experience in football sports
According to Table 5, the experience of football referees in the Sports College of JiayingCollege, Meizhou City has 15 football referees, or 30%, 29 football referees, or 58%, 2football
referees have played professional competitions, or 4%; 4 played echelon or professional teams, accounting for 8%. From the analysis of the football experience of football referees, theproportion of football referees who have played in campus-level competitions is thelargest, with more than half of the students of football referees. The amateur level also accountedfor30 percent, while the professional level played the least and the least. Therefore, Meizhoucityjia should college sports college of football referee level is relatively low, most of therefereeiscampus level, which largely limits the football referee overall level, not through moreprofessional game to further enhance their experience and level. Table 5 Experience of football referees engaged in football sport of Football Collegeof JiayingCollege
Option Number of people %Personal hobbies 37 74
Vocational need 29 58
Economic interest 24 48
The pursuit of reputation 8 16
Improve professional level 24 48
Make more friends and
expand your circle of
friends
9 18
Other 1 2
Valid person-time 50 —Experience level Number of people %
21
4.2 The ruling status of football referees of Jiaying College
4.2.1 Judge level
Therefore, Table 6 shows that the number of third-level football referees of MeizhouJiayingCollege is 25, accounting for 50%; the number of Grade II football referees is 11, accountingfor22%; 12,24%; national reserve football referees is 0, accounting for 0%; 2 national football
referees, accounting for 4%. From the perspective of proportion, the higher the football refereelevel, the less the number of football referees, and the less the proportion. The promotion of referees needs to meet the requirements of a certain adjudicationtimeandlaw enforcement time, and a certain reserve of theoretical knowledge and accumulationofpractical experience, so that they can receive training, assessment and approval fromahigherlevel association(Lee Shengwei, China Journal of Multimedia). Therefore, the level of football
referees in Guangzhou University of Physical Education is generally at the secondandthirdlevel. This group of referees are both young and have great potential for development andimprovement. They may be due to their contact with the referees for a short timeandtheirlack of competition experience, which is easy to lead to misjudgment and omissionsinthegame. It takes more senior referees to train more football players for our city quicklyandnormally.Table 6 Survey of football referee level of Football College of Jiaying CollegeAmateur level 15 30
Campus level 29 58
Professional level 2 4
Echelon or Pro Team 4 8
Total 50 100
Rank Number of people %Three-level 25 50
22
4.2.2 Working time as a referee
According to Table 7,21 students of Jiaying College have worked as football referees for lessthan one year, accounting for 42%; 14 in 1-2 years, accounting for 28%; 8 in 2-3 years, accounting for 16%; 3 in 3-4 years, accounting for 6%; 4 in over 4 years, accountingfor 8%. Itcan be seen that the tenure of football referees in Meizhou Jiaying College of Physical
Education is not optimistic. The working time of the referee is equivalent to the tenureof thetenure of the referee represents the experience of the referee on the field. Often, thelongerthe tenure of the football referees, the stronger the professional ability and can skillfullycarryout the referee work skillfully. Form 7, the football referee of high fixed number of year islessand less, it is no rich experience in the ruling, in the short term also cannot improve morelawenforcement experience, this to a large extent on the football games of ability, is not conduciveto further enhance the level of football referee, cannot further improve the Meizhoucityfootball referee team training provide effective help. Table 7 Survey on the working hours of football referees for students in football CollegeofJiaying College
Two level 11 22
One-level 12 24
National reserve level 0 0
National level 2 4
Total 50 100
Option Number of people %Less than a year 21 42
1-2 Years 14 28
2-3Years 8 16
3-4Years 3 6
More than 4 years 4 8
Total 50 100
23
4.4.3 Specialized in football referee training experience
As can be seen from Table 8,41 students from Jiaying College have participated in specializedfootball referee training experience, accounting for 82%, and 9 students who have not
participated in specialized football referee training experience, accounting for 18%. It canbeseen that most campus football referees have participated in the special football refereetraining, but as students, nearly one fifth of the students did not participate in the special
football referee training experience, which is not conducive to the further improvement of thefootball referee team. Table 8 Survey on whether students of Jiaying College have participated in specializedfootball
referee training
4.4.4 The type of adjudication competition
As can be seen from Table 9, the football matches of the football referees of the SportsCollege of Meizhou Jiaying University basically revolve around the members of the primaryschool group, followed by the junior high school, junior middle school and senior highschool
group. The type of college football referee was 50%, 28% in the primary school group, 14%inthe college group and 8% in the adult group. It can be seen that at present, the level of football
referees is generally low, and there are not enough senior matches to improve their ownreferee experience and professional ability, which greatly limits the cultivation andWhether you have
participated in the special
training Number of people %Yes 41 82
No 9 18
Total 50 100
24
development of the football referee team. Table 9 Survey on the competition types of referees in football College of JiayingCollegeOption Number of people %Primary school group 25 50
Junior high school group 14 28
College students group 7 14
Adult group 4 8
Total 50 100
25
5 Conclusion
At present, the football referees in Meizhou city are mainly male, and the gender differenceislarge. The grade distribution of referees is different, and there are obviously more football refereesinthe junior year, indicating that the number of referees in the freshman and sophomoreyeargradually increases. Job motivation is mainly interests, career needs, but also more economicinterests and improve professional level. More students who have played in campus
competitions and amateur competitions. A few people have played in professional level or
professional teams, indicating that they are getting younger and lack of experience. Most of the referees are concentrated in the second level and no level, the level threerefereesshow a fault phenomenon, with the growth of seniority there are also quite a fewsecondlevel
of referees. Although the survey shows that there are no national reserve level referees, but asmall number of national referees. Most students have generally participated in the football experience. Nearly half of thestudents have short adjudication years and need more opportunities to improve their
adjudication level. The participation motivation of the football referee team training needs to be further improved, and the lack of correct participation opportunities reduces the overall training effect of thereferee team, which leads to the lack of professional ability.
26
6 Improvement strategy
6.1 Improve comprehensive capabilities
Standardize the professional quality. The professional quality of football referees is reflectedinthe understanding and improvised application of the rules and referees of football
competitions. The rules of football competition are the only basis for the referees toenforcethe law on the spot, and also the code of conduct that the athletes and coaches of bothsidesmust abide by. The referee should be familiar with and master the rules, not simply rotememorization, but to thoroughly understand the spirit of the rules, and can accuratelyandreasonably implement the rules on the field. The referees and the rules, help to promotetheathletes to better play their skills and tactics, promote the athletes to forma good moral styleand indomitable fighting spirit, constantly purify the atmosphere of the field, give full playtothe athletes' skills and tactical level, but also conducive to the control of the competitionsituation, make the game more exciting. 6.2 Improve psychological quality
Good psychological quality is a prerequisite for a qualified referee. In the process of
improvisation, the referee is bound to be affected by a variety of on-field, off-site factors, thepsychological pressure, affect the accuracy of its on-site law enforcement. Therefore, therelationship with the athletes, coaches and spectators should be handled correctly. Therefereeshould know how to adjust their mental state at any time on the field, not to be disturbedbythe outside world. The referee should be able to correctly face the main and away factors, correctly face the questions and even scolding of the players and coaches, correctly facetheaudience correctly, correctly face the intense game process, and correctly face their ownmistakes (misjudgment, misjudgment, missed judgment, etc.). In the process of on-sitelawenforcement, the referee should always be full of confidence and tenacious perseverance, witha fearless spirit. Whatever the situation, be calm and prove yourself with the right sentence. Always remember that prudence and kindness are always more powerful than excitement andanger.
27
6.3 Standardize the professional quality
The professional quality of football referees is reflected in the understanding and improvisedapplication of the rules and referees of football competitions. The rules of football competitionare the only basis for the referees to enforce the law on the spot, and also the codeof conductthat the athletes and coaches of both sides must abide by. The referee should be familiar withand master the rules, not simply rote memorization, but to thoroughly understand thespirit ofthe rules, and can accurately and reasonably implement the rules on the field. The refereeandthe rules, help to promote the athletes to better play their skills and tactical level, promotetheathletes to form a good moral style and indomitable fighting spirit, constantly purify theatmosphere of the field, give full play to the athletes' skills and tactical level, but alsoconducive to the control of the competition situation, make the game more exciting.(ZouHaichao.,2021)
28
7 Discussion and suggestions
Improve the skills that football referees should have and enhance their physical fitness. Afootball referee must have certain conditions to adapt to his work. Such as the physical
requirements of the referees. So in the training practice should insist on the basis of thecomprehensive development of physical quality, highlight running ability training, pay attentionto improve the general endurance and speed endurance the referee administrative
departments at all levels in the referee training target, due to the age of the refereegenderphysical training level and the ability to load, etc.(Football referee 360)
Strengthen the basic skills of law enforcement, excellent skills is the basis of the refereelawenforcement.The basic skill is the most basic special action used by the referee in thefield, which contains two parts, one is the field of vision and movement. A broad vision is aprerequisite for football referees to judge the situation timely and accurately. Everyone'sphysiological vision is almost the same, through special training, such as peripheral light
training, fast eye shift training, single on-site training, can effectively expand the fieldof vision. The most effective way to expand your vision is to run reasonably. The purpose of runningistoadjust the position of the body reasonably, choose the ideal observation Angle, andtransferthelimited field of vision to the most effective observation surface, so as to improve theaccuracyof the penalty. Establish a good moral quality.The psychological training of football referees mainly includesthree aspects: paying attention to quality, will quality and self-control quality. Learn systematic theoretical learning.Only by learning the rules can we have the lawtofollowin enforcing the law, regulate our own behavior, and be clean and fair, fair and accurate. Afterthe systematic theoretical study of football competition rules and referee methods andthetraining of referee skills, students have acquired certain conditions and quality of on-the-spotlaw enforcement. It is necessary to strengthen the intensive training of on-the-spot practicetoimprove students' referee skills, and the ability to analyze and solve problems.
Introduce the indirect experience. The practice opportunity of individual referee is limited, toconstantly absorb the strengths of the people, repeatedly verified, in order to improvequickly. Conduct spot statistics and analyze the work of referees. We will train our basic skills well. Sentry, gesture, flag display, running ability and movementrecognition ability are the basic skills of football referees.We can try to strengthen thetechnical basis of referees by combining independent training and the teamof referees. It issuggested to provide more on-site law enforcement for football referees, increase thepublicity
29
and training of female football referees, expand the use of young football referees, improvetheir ability to punish the game, and promote the ability of referees to blowthe level.
30
8 Evaluation of the study
In this study, coaches of football association and football referee coaches of sports collegewhocan accurately reflect the current situation and development of football referee teaminMeizhou. Literature review resources come from major authoritative publishing houses andnews media in China. The data that it provides is authoritative and reliable. All resourcesarestandardized and have high reliability. The research points out that the management of football
referees in our city is not perfect, and the main problems are insufficient personnel, weakprofessional ability, too few high-level competitions, and irregular unscientific management
and development. Meizhou city, as the "hometown of football" and the hometown of thekingoffootball, also needs to make efforts to expand the team of football professionals, buildacomplete team of football referees, and expand the transmission channel of reservetalentsoffootball referees. This study is of great learning significance to the training of football refereesby Meizhou Football Association.
In the process of this paper, through the study of "the training and development of Meizhoufootball referees team", I have a clearer understanding of the football referees team, adeeperunderstanding of the construction of the football referees team, and now have a
comprehensive understanding of the training and development of Meizhou football referees. Inthe process of research, I learned about the management mode of Meizhou Football
Association.
I believe that the Meizhou football referee team is getting better and better under themanagement of Meizhou Football Association and the Sports College of Jiaying University. Thereferee team will definitely strengthen their professional ability and improve the overall qualityof the referees. According to the current development prospect of football, the demandforfootball referees will only be bigger and bigger, and the business ability will be stronger andstronger. In the development of the government and schools, female referees will becomemore and more popular, and female referees will also increase. I hope that the futureWorldCup can also appear Meizhou city referee figure. We know the direction of our efforts, wecancheck the shortcomings, accumulate experience and then summarize and improve, I believethat the future will be better and better, and Meizhou football referee teamto a newheight.
31
References
Analysis of the Football Competition Rules
Baidu https://mbd.baidu.com/ug_ Bai Jinbiao. Research on the psychological quality cultivation of football referees [J]. Sport, 2018,14 (13): 25-26. Football Competition Rules, 2021 / 2022
Football referee _360 encyclopedia https://m.baike.so.com/doc/5894021-6106908.html
Gang Liang, Liu Shuai. Analysis and countermeasures on the training of Football refereesinHunan Province from the perspective of national fitness [J]. Modern Education, 2019,40(8): 33-35. Huang Wenhuan and Tian Jianqiang,Brief the professional ethics of football referees，Economic Research Guide, Issue 30,2011
Lee Shengwei. Research on the professional level and training content of collegestudentfootball referees [J. China Journal of Multimedia and Network Teaching: TV
Measures for the Administration of Referees in Sports Competition
Sun Baojie ,Analysis of Football Competition Rules, Beijing Sport University Press2005.10Sohu Basic gestures of football referees
Wang Riqing, Science and Technology Information, Issue 03,2012
Yu Xueliang. Research on the professional quality training of football refereesinthenew era [J]. Sports fashion, 2022,38 (1): 89-91. Zou Haichao. Analysis of the training ways of female football referees in Jiangsu Province[J]. Sports fashion, 2021,37 (5): 126-127. Zhang Weiwei. Research on quality training of football referees and improvement of refereeability [J]. 2021,36(6):126-127.
32
Appendices
Appendix 1. A questionnaire survey of football referees
Dear students: Hello! I am from Meizhou. I am conducting an investigation and researchonthecurrent situation of the training and development of football referees. The purpose is tounderstand the training mode and the problems in the development so as to make studentsmore effectively learning football referees. Your answer is not right or wrong, as longasit trulyreflects your real situation and views, it will achieve the purpose of the investigation. Thequestionnaire is anonymous, I hope you can actively participate, and your answer is completelyconfidential. The investigation will delay you for a few minutes, please understand, thankyoufor your support and cooperation!(Fill in the instructions: please read the questionnairecarefully, choose the options according to your real situation, fill in the questionnaireaccordingto the title provisions, and choose your answer. Thank you for your cooperation!) *1.Sex
Man（）
Woman（）
*2.Your grade
Freshman （）
Sophomore ( )
Junior ( )
Senior ( )
33
*3.Football referee level
Three-level ( )
Two level ( )
One-level ( )
National reserve level ( )
National level ( ) *4.Experience of being engaged in the football game
Amateur level ( )
Campus level ( )
Professional level ( )
Echelons, or professional teams ( ) *5.Have you ever attended a special training class for football referees?
Yes ( )
No ( ) *6.To in or work as a referee
Less than a year ( )
1-2 Years ( )
2-3 Years ( )
3-4 Years ( )
More than 4 years ( )
34
*7.The average annual participation in the enforcement of referees
1-10 games ( )
11-20 games ( )
21-30 games ( )
31-40 games ( )
More than 40 games ( ) *8.Your usually governing competition is
Primary school group ( )
Junior high school students group ( )
College students group ( )
Adult group ( )
35
Appendix 2.
Interview outline of Meizhou Football referee Team training and Development StatusandCountermeasures
Shalom! I am a college student who is about to enter the society. I have designed this interviewoutline to understand the current situation of the football referee teamtraining of MeizhouFootball Association. Please spare some time to complete the interview. This survey doesnotinvolve your personal information, your answer is only used as an important basis for mypaper, for your strong support and help, I would like to express my heartfelt thanks here!
1. How do you know about the training value of football referees?
2. How do you think that the relevant government departments attach great importancetothetraining of referees?
3. How do you think of the current construction situation of the referee training market?4. What problems do you think exist in the current situation of the training teamof football
referees in Meizhou city?
5. Do you have any good views or suggestions on improving the current situation of thefootball referee team training in Meizhou city?