Guangzhou Youth Football Development
HaoXian Yang
Bachelor’sThesisDegree ProgrammeinSportsCoaching andManagement2022
Author(s)
HaoXian Yang
Degree programme
Degree Programme in sport coaching and management
Report/thesis title
Guangzhou Youth Football Development
Number of pagesandappendix pages42
Abstract
This paper mainly adopts the research methods of literature review and analysis to studythedevelopment status of youth football in Guangzhou. The purpose of the research is toexplorethe potential problems of youth football development in Guangzhou and put forwardfeasiblesuggestions, so as to improve the development efficiency of youth football in Guangzhou, cultivate excellent football reserve talents for the country and strengthen our sports strength. The content of this paper includes the current situation of football development in Guangzhouand the measures to solve the existing problems of youth football in Guangzhou. Finally, thispaper concludes that the shortcomings of the current development of youth football inGuangzhou include: teachers, parents and students have deviation in their understandingof theconnotation and importance of youth football. The teachers of campus football and youthfootball
training institutions are weak. Football management system is not perfect. Insufficient fundsandbackward infrastructure. Educational concepts and teaching methods are backward, andstudents' enthusiasm for participation is not strong. In this regard, the solutions providedinthispaper include: increasing the publicity of youth football. Strengthen the construction of campusfootball spiritual culture. Strengthen training and cultivate excellent teachers. Introduceforeignprofessionals and save reserve talent resources; Clarify responsibilities and divisionof labor toavoid offside or absence. Establish the supervision system and evaluation systemof youthfootball. Create innovative football venues and update basic equipment. Expand thesourcesof
funds and find external cooperation mechanisms. Adhere to the people-oriented educational
concept and highlight the main position of students. Innovate teaching methods, improveteenagers' interest in football and realize interesting teaching. Keywords
Football, youth, Guangzhou
Table of contents
1 Introduction .....................................................................................................................................51. 1 Research background .........................................................................................................51. 2 Research purpose ...............................................................................................................51. 3 Research significance.........................................................................................................61. 3. 1 Theoretical significance .................................................................................................. 61. 3. 2 Practical significance ...................................................................................................... 62 Concept definition ...........................................................................................................................72.1 The concept of football ........................................................................................................ 72.2 Adolescent concept..............................................................................................................73Literature review ..............................................................................................................................73. 1 Domestic research status ................................................................................................... 73. 1. 1A Study on the Value of Teenager Football Activities ......................................................73. 1. 2 Research on the development of campus football in China ..........................................83. 1. 3 Research on the development strategy of campus football in China ............................93. 2 Foreign research results ...................................................................................................103. 3 Comprehensive review of research at home and abroad ................................................114 Historical evolution and development status of youth football in Guangzhou ............................ 114. 1 The Historical Evolution of Football Development........................................................... 114. 2 Development status ..........................................................................................................124. 2. 1 Football courses ........................................................................................................... 124. 2. 2 Development of extracurricular sports activities .......................................................... 144. 2. 3 Policy guarantee ...........................................................................................................155 Advantages of Guangzhou Youth Football Development ........................................................... 165.1 It can strengthen the physique of teenagers .....................................................................165.2 It can promote the mental health of teenagers ................................................................. 165.3 It can cultivate teenagers' sense of teamwork ..................................................................175.4 It can improve the Aesthetic Ability of Teenagers ............................................................. 185.5 It can promote the development of sports in Guangzhou .................................................185.6 It can cultivate excellent football reserve talents for the country ......................................19
6 Analysis on the development of youth football in Guangzhou .................................................... 206. 1 The consciousness of developing youth football is weak ................................................216. 2 Weak teachers .................................................................................................................. 226. 3 Imperfect management system ........................................................................................236. 4 Insufficient funds and backward infrastructure .................................................................246. 5 The educational concept is backward and students' enthusiasm for participationisnot
strong ....................................................................................................................................... 257 Strategy analysis on the development of youth football in Guangzhou ......................................267. 1 Increase the publicity of youth football .............................................................................267. 1. 1 Strengthen the publicity of youth football.....................................................................267. 1. 2 Strengthen the spiritual and cultural construction of campus football .........................287. 2 Strengthening the teaching staff of youth football ............................................................297. 2. 1 Strengthen training and cultivate excellent teachers ...................................................297. 2. 2 Introduce foreign professionals and save reserve talent resources ............................317. 3 Improve the management level of youth football .............................................................327. 3. 1 Clarify responsibilities and division of labor to avoid offside or absence.................... 327. 3. 2 Establish youth football supervision system and evaluation system...........................337. 4 Do a good job of youth football security ...........................................................................347. 4. 1 Create innovative football venues and update basic equipment .................................347. 4. 2 Expand sources of funds and seek external cooperation mechanisms ......................357. 5 Innovative football education concept ..............................................................................367. 5. 1 Adhere to the people-oriented educational concept and highlight the dominant positionof students ................................................................................................................................367. 5. 2 Innovate teaching methods and realize interesting teaching...................................... 378 Future prospect of youth football in Guangzhou......................................................................... 388. 1 From campus football to professional football ................................................................. 388. 2 Pay more attention to the construction of competition system ........................................389 Conclusions ..................................................................................................................................39List of references ..................................................................................................................... 41
1 Introduction
1. 1 Research background
The development of campus football is not only conducive to improve students' physical
quality, but also to improve students' enthusiasm for sports, and cultivate teenagers' initiativeand team spirit of football. The popularity of campus football provides a solid foundationfor
the future development of football in China, so that our football can step into a healthy
development path. Campus football training is not a group of football players, but tobuildacradle of high-quality football reserve talents. At present, China's campus football activitieshave gradually stepped on the right track. As a hot city of national youth football activities, Guangzhou has a lot to learn from in the operation and innovation of football projects. Of
course, the problems generated in its development process are also worthy of our reflection. Based on this, this paper will study the development status, existing problems and
improvement suggestions of youth football in Guangzhou, in order to improve the
development level of football in Guangzhou and the whole country. 1. 2 Research purpose
Physical education is the material basis and fundamental guarantee for the dependenceof
moral education, intellectual education, aesthetic education and labor education. It isaneffective way to improve students' health level and promote students' all-round development.
It is an important part of the national development strategy. Since entering the 21st century,
in order to promote the construction of a socialist cultural power, more and more schoolshave begun to put the reform of physical education on the agenda. As one of the sportslovedby teenagers in the new era, football is not only conducive to enhancing students' physique, but also conducive to cultivating excellent sports reserve talents for our country and
improving our comprehensive national strength. Therefore, at present, football has graduallybecome a breakthrough in school physical education, and its social status is increasingdayby day. In this context, the importance of exploring the development status and prospectsof
Chinese football is becoming more and more obvious. Therefore, this paper takes thedevelopment of youth football in Guangzhou as the topic, and the research purposeis toexplore the current situation of the development of youth football in Guangzhou, findout theproblems, analyze and solve the problems, in order to explore the development lawof
domestic youth football, improve the efficiency of youth football development in Guangzhouand other parts of China, cultivate excellent football reserve talents for the country andpromote the construction of a large sports country. 1. 3 Research significance
1. 3. 1 Theoretical significance
The fundamental purpose of writing literature review is to enrich the theoretical basis andprovide factual basis. By consulting the relevant literature of the academic journal network, we can not only basically master the research and development of China's football projectsindifferent periods and the current trend of the research and development of world football
projects, obtain a more systematic theoretical basis and useful reference literature, andlayasolid foundation for the smooth development of the thesis research. It can also makeacomprehensive comment on the existing research results, find the gaps in previous researchor the insufficient and thorough research, so as to think about whether future researchcanfind more meaningful and significant results. 1. 3. 2 Practical significance
If a country wants to stand at the peak of science, it can't live without theoretical thinking. It
can be seen that theory is the basis of practice, and theory plays a guiding role in practice. Literature review can enrich the theoretical basis, and theory can further guide the
development of practice. Therefore, studying the development status of youth campusfootball in Guangzhou will help us find, analyze and solve the existing problems in this field,
that is, give full play to our professional knowledge and professional judgment ability, andstrive to provide suggestions for the reform and innovation of youth football.
2 Concept definition
2.1 The concept of football
Football is a sport in which two teams attack and defends each other on the same rectangular
court according to certain rules.Football is known as the first sport in the world becauseof itsstrong antagonism, changeable tactics and large number of participants. 2.2 Adolescent concept
Adolescents are the transitional period from children to adults, which also refers to thehumanlife group in the transitional period from children to adults. Generally speaking, teenagersaredivided into two stages: 14-17 years old and 18-25 years old. 14-17 years old is inmiddleschool, and 18-25 years old is in college. 3 Literature review
3. 1 Domestic research status
3. 1. 1 A Study on the Value of Teenager Football Activities
HouXuehua (2012) believed that the national youth football activity is an important measureto change the backwardness of Chinese football and revitalize Chinese football, andaneffective means to promote sunshine sports, comprehensively implement quality education, and cultivate school and city culture. The research believes that, for the society, campusfootball is a public welfare undertaking led by the government. For the majority of youngpeople, campus football activities are a basic right of young people. Under the premiseof
ensuring the learning of cultural courses, young people have the right to make their ownchoices. The value types of campus football activities include: the value of physical fitness,
the value of sunshine sports, the value of football knowledge and skills popularization, thevalue of football talent training, the value of quality education and the value of cultural
construction. 3. 1. 2 Research on the development of campus football in China
In recent years, domestic scholars pay more and more attention to the research on thedevelopment of juvenile football, and the relevant research results emerge one after another. After consulting the data,LiJixia (2012) found that the development bottleneck of domesticcampus football is mainly reflected in three aspects. First, the management systemis not
perfect,that is, sports and education belong to two independent systems. In the absenceof
effective communication and coordination mechanism, the Football Association's
management of campus football is limited, resulting in the coexistence of "Absence" and"offside" imagination of management. The second is the disharmony between popularizationand improvement, that is, some schools lack the cognitive positioning of the development
goal of campus football. They only blindly pursue "finding seedlings and cultivatingfootball
talents", but ignore the educational essence of "people-oriented" and the promotion andpopularization of football. The third is the lack of policy guarantee, that is, some schoolsstill
need to be improved in fund supporting and management, football instructor trainingandprofessional title evaluation, grade athlete evaluation and so on. Li Weidong, Zhang Ting'an, Lu Yu and others (2011) proposed the common problems inthedevelopment of campus football in various provinces and cities in China, including thepoor
management system and operation mechanism of campus football, the virtual development
of students' football activities in schools, the imperfect campus football competition system,
the low scientific level of after-school football training in schools, the lack of campus football
security and evaluation system, weak teachers, insufficient funds, and backward venues. Zhu Pinyi (2021) through the investigation and analysis of the development of youthcampusfootball activities in Guangdong Province, found that there are mainly the following problemsat the teacher level of youth campus football activities in China: the shortage of campus
football teachers, the imbalance of gender ratio of teachers, the professional quality of
teachers needs to be improved, the structure of teachers' professional titles is unreasonable, and the effect of teacher training is not ideal,Teachers' performance appraisal and incentivesystem is not perfect, and the construction and development of teachers is unbalanced. At present, there are still many deficiencies in the development of youth football in
Guangzhou, including weak teachers, low proportion of teachers who have receivedprofessional and systematic football training, inadequate infrastructure such as football
venues and equipment, and some parents do not support students to participate in football
(QiuYulin, 2016). 3. 1. 3 Research on the development strategy of campus football in China
Ye Xinhao (2016) affirmed the achievements made in the development of youth football inGuangzhou in recent years and listed many advantages of football sports. However, it alsofound many problems in the investigation and research. Therefore, the scholar put forwardfeasible suggestions on the existing problems in the development of campus football inGuangzhou and other provinces and cities in China. First of all, schools should expandthesources of funds to ensure sufficient funds. Secondly, we should establish a good trainingsystem and improve the level of teachers. In addition, we should constantly improvethecompetition system arrangement and improve the competition environment. Finally, strengthen publicity and change bad ideas. Huang He believes that the current serious decline in the level of Chinese football, theunhealthy football environment and weak foundation restrict the sustainable development of
Chinese football. In order to allow more children to participate in football, to expandthepopularity of youth football, and to consolidate the foundation of football talents, it is thewayto return football to campus, which is in line with the development law of football.( HuangHe,2011)
In addition, we can also get effective suggestions from the research of other scholars: dilutethe competitive color of campus football activities, cultivate teenagers' interest in football, andpromote teenagers' physical and mental health. Strengthen teachers' mastery of safetyprotection knowledge to ensure the safety of football. Strengthen the management systemand operation mechanism of campus football, clarify responsibilities, divide work andcooperate. 3. 2 Foreign research results
For a long time, the results of Chinese football is not satisfactory. Different fromChina,
football in western countries has always occupied a pivotal position in the world. In thefinal
analysis, due to the short development time and the influence of other restrictive factors, our
football system, sports concept and educational methods obviously lag behind many
developed countries. The reason why the world's football advanced countries are prosperousis closely related to their attention to the development of youth football. Therefore, it is
necessary for us to actively learn and absorb the advanced experience of other countriesandencourage ourselves.
In recent years, the football strength of the Japanese national team has increased steadilyand has become one of the countries with the best development of football in recent years. Hirohiro Matsumoto of Tsukuba University in Japan summarized the experience of Japanesefootball development from the history of Japanese football development. He believesthat
the continuous progress of Japanese football career is inseparable fromJapan's attentiontofootball projects. As early as the 1970s, the Japanese football team won the third placeinthe Mexican Olympic Games, which ignited the Japanese passion to participate in football. Since then, the Japanese youth campus football has developed rapidly. Some datashowthat the lower the age, the more the number of teams and the more the number of players". Relying on the strong economic strength of the Japanese professional football league, it hasattracted a large number of excellent athletes to play in Japan, and the strength of theJapanese football national team has increased steadily (Hirohiro Matsumoto).
3. 3 Comprehensive review of research at home and abroad
Domestic and foreign scholars (HouXuehua, Li Jixia, Li Weidong, Zhu Pinyi, QiuYulin, Hirohiro Matsumoto) introduced and summarized the development process, development
status, development problems and development strategy of campus football since thenewcentury. At the same time, they also revealed the future development trend of campus football,
that is, the trend of wider coverage, more complete resource allocation and higher activityefficiency.These advanced theories and methods provide guidance for our deeper researchon campus football. Of course, it is undeniable that there are still many deficiencies inthesestudies. For example, some experts divorced from the main battlefield of school whenstudying campus football, ignored the effective combination of campus football and education, and failed to give full play to the role of physical education in promoting students' intelligenceand ideological and moral quality. In addition, many scholars have not realized the organiccombination of football education and modern science and technology, so they havefailedtoprovide new suggestions for the innovation of talent training mode. In the future, we canstrengthen the innovative research on youth campus football from these aspects. 4 Historical evolution and development status of youth football inGuangzhou
4. 1 The Historical Evolution of Football Development
Ancient football originated in China. It is reported that as early as more than 2000 yearsago, a football game - Cuju appeared in China. Cuju developed from the spring and Autumnperiodto the Yuan and Ming Dynasties, gradually matured and was deeply loved by thepeople. Although Cuju is different from football in the modern sense, it is undeniable that it canstill beregarded as the product of football in the immature period, which proves that football hasadeep origin with China.（Cui Lequan,2018）
Modern football originated in England. At the end of the 19th century and the beginningof
the 20th century, modern football was introduced into China. With the improvement of social
productivity and material living conditions, people pay more attention to the development of
spiritual civilization and entertainment culture. Therefore, football is deeply loved andrespected by the people in China and spread to a certain extent. Especially since thefounding of new China, in order to promote the construction of a sports power, the
development of football in China has attracted much attention, and football has graduallybecome one of the mainstream sports in China. In June 2009, the State General
Administration of sports and the Ministry of Education jointly established the national youthfootball leading group to carry out campus football activities nationwide. Since then, Chineseyouth football has entered a new stage of development. Under the planning of the leadinggroup, Guangzhou has become one of the first 44 campus football cities in China. In2018, Guangzhou was selected as the national youth campus football reform pilot zone. Withthestrong support of national policies, the youth football work in Guangzhou has usheredinunprecedented development opportunities, and the theoretical research and practical
activities related to youth football have also been carried out one after another. (Cui
Lequan,2018)
4. 2 Development status
4. 2. 1 Football courses
Table1: Guangzhou Youth campus football construction (by the end of 2020)
Guangzhou Youth campus football construction (by the end of 2020)
category Quantity (unit: piece)
National Youth Football pilot area 1
Provincial campus football pilot area 3
National campus football characteristic
school
137
Provincial campus Football Promotion
School
270
Municipal campus Football Promotion
School
800
Campus football key base school 20
Source: Southern plus, GuoSuying, Wu Yulun, November 26,
2020,https://3g.163.com/dy/article/FSC058L2055004XG.html
With the increasing social status of football, the significance of football to teenagers' physical
quality and will quality is becoming more and more obvious. Therefore, the constructionof
campus football is no surprise. As an advanced area of domestic economic development, Guangzhou has invested a lot of time, energy and material resources in the constructionof
campus football. As early as 2014, in the "Guangzhou primary and secondary school
campus football plan" issued by the Guangzhou municipal government, relevant government
departments proposed to increase the popularity of football courses. It is expected that from2015, the campus football project promotion school will strive to set up four to six football
courses every semester. By the end of 2020, there were 137 provincial-level and municipal
Football Promotion Schools in Zhuhai, and there were 3 provincial-level and municipal
Football Promotion Schools in Zhuhai. (Campus Football, 2022) In addition, accordingtothedata reported by the Southern Metropolis Daily, in 2020, a total of 54%of middle schoolsinGuangzhou have opened football physical education classes to teach basic football
knowledge and skills. The average football class hours in schools are as high as 1. 8hoursper week. It can be seen that the opening rate of football courses in primary and secondaryschools in Guangzhou is increasing. (Nanfang Metropolis Daily, 2020)
4. 2. 2 Development of extracurricular sports activities
Figure 1: the final of Guangdong "governor's Cup" Youth Football League in 2021
Source: Nine school news, December 23, 2021,https://mi.mbd.baidu.com/r/FDix21jqBG?f=cp&u=63efbbe9c8f47b4b
In recent years, in order to create a good and healthy sports environment and encourageandsupport teenagers to actively participate in football, various football activities and football
competitions in Guangzhou are in full swing. At present, primary and secondary schoolsareincreasing the holding of all kinds of football entertainment activities and football campuscompetitions. In addition, various non-governmental public welfare organizations, professional football clubs and sports departments have also actively responded to thecall of
the state and the government to continuously increase the number of social football activitiesand competitions, so as to create a wider range of football opportunities for teenagers inthecity. Every year, Guangzhou "R&F Cup" campus football match, "Mayor's Cup", "Governor'sCup" and other activities are carried out one after another, making the local campus football
atmosphere more intense. In the finals of Guangdong Provincial "governor's Cup" youthcampus Football League (senior high school men's group) in 2021, the participating teamsshowed their skills. In the 2021 Guangdong Provincial Governor's Cup Youth CampusFootball League (High School Men's Group) Final, the participating teams showed their skills. Four teams from Guangzhou participated, and finally won the first, second and third places. Guangzhou Yu Yan Middle School led by Guangdong football star Ende Tan becamethelast
king, making a historic breakthrough. In addition to competitive exchanges, the participatingteams of this "Provincial Governors Cup" have demonstrated good competition styleanddiscipline both on and off the court. Every game of Guangzhou Tourism Business Vocational
School is managed according to the standards of professional clubs, and all materials for thecompetition are carefully placed beside the court.(ChangPengchao,2019)
4. 2. 3 Policy guarantee
Guangzhou is committed to ensuring the healthy development of campus football andstrengthening measures. In terms of capital investment, since 2018, Guangzhou's financial
investment in campus football has increased year by year. In 2020, Guangzhou investedmore than 79 million yuan to promote the characteristics of football and the school's teacher
training, teaching, training and competition. In terms of equipment and facilities, in order topromote the construction of football venues, Guangzhou municipal government allocated1. 75 billion yuan in 2015-2017 to implement the reconstruction project of school sports andhealth infrastructure. During the 13th Five Year Plan period, Guangzhou not only increasedfinancial investment, but also upgraded 2422 school sports and health infrastructureprojects.
In terms of laws and regulations, Guangzhou took the lead in carrying out the three-year
action plan of municipal top-level design, issued the Guangzhou primary and secondaryschool students' Campus football plan (2014-2016), Guangzhou Youth campus football
development plan (2017-2020) and the implementation plan of Guangzhou Youth campusfootball reform pilot area (2019-2021), and established a joint meeting systemof campusfootball under the leadership of the vice mayor in charge, Guangzhou Campus football
leading group established by various departments was established to lay a good
organizational foundation for the development of campus football work.(General Officeof theMinistry of Education of Guangzhou,2019)
5 Advantages of Guangzhou Youth Football Development
5.1 It can strengthen the physique of teenagers
According to the relevant data of the Constitution Survey issued by the Ministry of Education,
in the past three decades, the physical fitness of Chinese teenagers has declinedcontinuously, and their strength, speed, explosive power, endurance and other physical
qualities have declined in an all-round way, which has become the focus of national andsocial attention. By 2020, the national students' physical health failure rate is 6.5%for primaryschool students, 14.5% for junior high school students, 11.8% for senior high school students, and 30% for college students. However, the data related to vision and obesity is rising, whichshows that the physical quality of Chinese teenagers needs to be strengthened urgently. Asapopular sport in the world, football is characterized by integrity, antagonism, changeability, entertainment, hardship and ease of operation. Frequent participation in football canimprovethe speed, strength, endurance, agility, flexibility and other physical qualities of teenagersinGuangzhou, improve the functions of the internal organs such as the nervous system, cardiovascular system, respiratory system and the sports systems such as musclesandbones, and achieve the purpose of physical exercise and physical enhancement. (Physical
Research, 2020)
5.2It can promote the mental health of teenagers
With the gradual expansion of the youth population in Guangzhou, the social competitivepressure is also growing day by day. Teenagers are facing an excessive academic burdenfor
a long time. According to the Basic Survey on Physical Education in Primary and SecondarySchools in China, more than 60% of primary school students spend more than 7hoursinschool, and more than 60% of junior high school students spend more than 9 hours inschool. The school's lack of leisure education and guidance for young people has led to thelackof
good leisure ideas for young people themselves since childhood, and the academic pressurecan not be resolved in time. Influenced by exam oriented education, parents generallyagreethat "all things are inferior, but only reading is superior". They send their children tovariouscounseling classes such as Olympiad Maths. They focus on improving their academicperformance. They pay too much attention to children's intellectual development andneglect
the cultivation of their physique. Children's time and amount of physical exercise are seriouslyinsufficient, and their leisure time is even less. For a long time, it is easy to cause damagetothe mental health of teenagers, such as excessive learning pressure, psychological pressurecaused by parents, teachers and society's high expectations, and even some studentswill
have weariness of learning or self abandonment. The development of football in Guangzhouwill help to change this social situation. Football is typical of entertainment, so encouragingGuangzhou teenagers to actively participate in football will help them vent their emotionsandrelease their pressure, thus enhancing their sense of physical and mental pleasure, soastoachieve the goal of "happy sports and happy teaching". In the long run, football isalsoconducive to the development of students' emotions towards stability, so as to cultivatestudents' sound personality, reduce the overall social pressure and promote the harmoniousdevelopment of society. (Survey on the basic situation of physical education in primaryandsecondary schools in China, 2020)
5.3 It can cultivate teenagers' sense of teamwork
The collective is the source of strength, and the people are the cradle of wisdom. As oneof
the popular team sports in the world, football also has distinctive collective characteristics. The collective law of basketball is embodied in the team's excellent strategic technologyandstrategic thinking, as well as the good coordination and cooperation among the membersof
the organization. Therefore, participating in football competitions is conducive to creatingaharmonious team atmosphere and strengthening the team cooperation awarenessof
Guangzhou teenagers. This kind of team cooperation will not only help students wininthecompetition field with wisdom and get a sense of physical and mental pleasure, but alsohelpthem to become a qualified socialist citizen by relying more on the strengthof the
organization, playing its role, and safeguarding the rights and interests of the organizationintheir future study and work life. 5.4 It can improve the Aesthetic Ability of Teenagers
With the development, improvement and innovation of sports, the strategy, tactics, skillsandattacking methods of football are becoming more diversified and comprehensive, whichmakes football matches more enjoyable. The dynamic beauty of football and theshapebeauty of athletes can not only stimulate the senses of young people, immerse theminabeautiful cultural and artistic atmosphere, strengthen their sense of artistic experienceandpsychological pleasure, but also improve their aesthetic ability and aesthetic sentiment,
improve their ability to analyze football matches and football rules, and strengthen thespirit of
independent thinking and the ability to be good at observation. Therefore, it is necessarytopay attention to the high-level construction of youth football in Guangzhou. 5.5 It can promote the development of sports in Guangzhou
In recent years, Guangzhou Sports Department has made great efforts to developyouthfootball, formed a unique football development matrix and policy, made outstandingcontributions to the city's sports cause, and improved the influence of the industry. In2015, Guangzhou Football Association became the first local football association in China torealizethe "decoupling" reform. Guangzhou Football Association has established 8special
committees to comprehensively promote the development of various work andformadecision-making mechanism that is legal and democratic. In the past five years, theGuangzhou Football Association, together with many departments, has jointly preparedmanypolicy documents, including the Implementation Plan for the Planning and Constructionof
Football Stadium Facilities in Guangzhou (2017-2020), the Mediumand LongtermDevelopment Plan for Football in Guangzhou (2019-2050), the Implementation Planfor
Guangzhou Youth Campus Football Reform Pilot Zone (2019-2021), and the ImplementationOpinions for Guangzhou Football Reform and Development, to actively promotethehigh-quality development of football in Guangzhou. In 2017, Guangzhou Football Association
won the "National Sports System Advanced Collective" award jointly issued by the Ministryof
Human Resources and Social Security and the General Administration of Sport, anditsreform achievements were recognized by the central government and the national sportsindustry. In 2017, 11 district level football associations were established in the city. TheMunicipal Football Association conducted in-depth research, formed the Guiding OpinionsonStrengthening the Promotion of the Organizational Construction of District Football
Associations, carried out the 2020 Plan and the Breakthrough Plan, guided, supportedandpromoted the development of district level football associations, and gradually formedaworking mechanism of linkage from top to bottom. After six years of exploration, Guangzhoufootball reform has achieved good social impact with full policy support.(General Officeof theMinistry of Education of Guangzhou,2019)
5.6 It can cultivate excellent football reserve talents for the country
Football is the crystallization of human civilization. It contains profound and cultural andideological connotation. Its influence has gone far beyond its own competitive sports category.
It has become an important part of politics, economy, culture and life. It relates to theimageof
a region or a country, and is an important manifestation of the comprehensivenational
strength of a country. Football in contemporary society has become a link and bridgetopromote people's exchanges and deepen understanding. Through football matches, wecannot only spread friendship and expand exchanges, but also promote and display thespirit of
the country and the nation. The victory of a major international competition is likeagrandfestival. The whole country celebrates and the nation is proud. It not only inspires morale, but
also inspires the national spirit and people's patriotic enthusiasm. Therefore, strengtheningthe development of Guangzhou youth football can cultivate more professional, excellent andcomprehensive football reserve talents for the country, thus improving the country's cultural
soft power and improving China's international status.
6Analysis on the development of youth football in GuangzhouFigure 2: Benitez directs the football match on site
Photo source: Xinhua news agency, Ma Bangjie, CaiYongjun, September 26, 2020 ,https://m.thepaper.cn/baijiahao_9357307?sdkver=771db3e7
The quantity and quality of football reserve talents is one of the important symbols tomeasure a country's football level and an important basis for the sustainable development of
football. In recent years, the overall level of China's football has been in a downwardtrend, so that we can clearly see that the Chinese football always seems to be in a "broken" stateinlarge and small football competitions at home and abroad. What is the reason why Chinesepeople have been ridiculed by the fact that football has been declining for three times, but
what is the reason why Chinese people have been ridiculed by the current downturn?Infact,
it is undeniable that football is a sport with great intensity, and the gap between Chineseathletes and European and American athletes in body shape and physical fitness is obviousto all, which limits the development of national football to a certain extent. But in thefinal
analysis, the main reason for the decline of the national football team lies in the insufficient
development of China's youth football, the collapse of the training systemof football reservetalents, and the shrinking of reserve talents is becoming more and more serious. At present,
in China with a population of 1. 4 billion, the registered number of youth professional football
is only 7000, which is enough to explain the lack of football reserve talents in China. Inanexclusive interview with Marca newspaper, the famous foreign football teacher Benitezalsosaid that a serious defect of Chinese players is their lack of "game wisdom", that is, theywill
not play wisely. The reason is that Chinese players contact football too late and play toolittle, which leads to a wide gap with European players in the later stage. It can be seenthat
the development achievements of football largely depend on the training level of youthfootball. Therefore, we should deeply reflect on the shortcomings of the development of
domestic youth football. As one of the first batch of campus football cities in China, althoughthe development of football youth training in Guangzhou is ahead of many regions inChina, it
is undeniable that it still has various defects, which need to be further discussed. (Marca, Benitez)
6. 1 The consciousness of developing youth football is weak
Due to the short development process and lack of development experience, some students, parents and even teachers have not realized the importance of football in teenagers' physical
and mental development, which limits the further improvement of teenagers' football level inGuangzhou. At the level of parents and teachers, some parents and teachers believeinthetraining concept of "everything is inferior, only reading is high", and require their childrenor
students to "listen to nothing outside the window and read only the books of sages". Theytend to be biased against football and think that football will affect the study of cultural
subjects. At the same time, it is difficult for them to support children or students to developtheir football hobby into a professional direction. As everyone knows, with the development
of social economy and civilization, "nerd" talents have long been unpopular by the society, and all walks of life have thrown out olive branches for "all-round" talents. Football is not
only conducive to physical fitness, but also conducive to the cultivation of athletes' will quality,
which is the trait required by contemporary social talents. In addition, due to the rapiddevelopment of social productive forces, China's sports cause has attracted more andmoreattention, and the development environment and conditions of football such as capital
investment, infrastructure, teachers and laws and regulations have become more andmoreperfect. This has provided new opportunities for the development of vocational football inGuangzhou and other parts of China, which also means that the social status and social
value of football players will be further improved. Therefore, the importance and practical
value of youth football development also appear. At the student level, many students havebeen "instilled" by traditional educational thinking for a long time and fail to understandthat
football has long been one of the indispensable sports in contemporary society. Therefore,
they do not pay attention to cultivating their own football skills. It is understood that
European children began to contact football as early as the age of five or six to understandthe basic knowledge of football, while most Chinese players began to play football at theageof twelve or three, six or seven years later than Europe. Over time, there is a growinggapbetween the development of Chinese football and Europe and the United States. 6. 2 Weak teachers
Excellent coaches are the strength support and guiding light of football players, and soundteachers are the key elements and basic conditions for the construction and development of
football campus and football city. However, at present, there are practical difficulties inthedevelopment of football campus and football youth training in Guangzhou. On the onehand,
in the face of increasingly important football subjects, the structural lack of football teachersisa common problem faced by primary and secondary schools in Guangzhou. Althoughmanyprimary and secondary schools have reasonably set up football courses in accordancewiththe relevant regulations of the education department, the physical education teacher
resources in the school can not match the growing number of young football players, sothat
some students can not enjoy the due teaching resources, and the classroomefficiencyof
football courses is also reduced. "When we investigated primary and secondary schoolsinGuangzhou, Foshan, Qingyuan, Yunfu and other places, we found that the structural
shortage of physical education teachers is more common in schools in many cities whentheoverall number of teachers is full. However, the total number of physical educationteachersin many mountain schools is insufficient, and there is a greater shortage of physical educationteachers, especially in schools in rural areas," said Li Jingbo, a professor at Sun YatsenUniversity It can be seen that football teacher training in Guangzhou, especially in remoteandbackward rural areas, is imminent. On the other hand, the teaching quality of youthfootball
trainers in Guangzhou is worrying. In the second half of 2021, Guangzhou Municipal
Bureau of education entrusted East China Normal University to select 81 schools in
Guangzhou as a pilot to diagnose and improve school physical education (East ChinaNormal
University, 2021). The project team found that the common problems of school physical
education are: insufficient and lack of stability of teachers, heavy workload of physical
education teachers, teachers' teaching quality to be improved, and unequal attentionbetween physical education and other cultural courses. In addition, it is understoodthat inorder to solve the problem of insufficient physical education teachers in some schools inGuangzhou, there are even teachers of Chinese, music and other disciplines servingasphysical education teachers. In the long run, how can the teaching quality of campusfootball be effectively guaranteed? In addition, the football vocational education personnel inGuangzhou also have some development defects, such as lack of professional knowledge, gender imbalance, small number of special football teachers, unreasonable design of trainingcontent, lack of attention to training and learning and so on. (East China Normal University, 2021)
6. 3 Imperfect management system
As one of the professional sports, football has the remarkable development characteristicsof
practicality, fitness, collectivity, entertainment and appreciation. It is a discipline different
from other cultural subjects, so its management mode is also different fromother cultural
subjects. At present, the establishment of football management institutions in Guangzhouisnot conducive to the scientific and sustainable development of football disciplines, but theessence of the establishment of football management institutions in Guangzhou. Froma
long-term perspective, the allocation of funds, the construction of venues, the procurement of
equipment, the training of teachers, the opening of football courses, the planning of teachingcontents and the holding of football activities are inseparable from the support of football
management institutions. Simply summarizing football management into cultural
management will make it difficult to pay attention to the development of campus football, andits experience or shortcomings in the development process are also difficult to get timelyattention and feedback. Of course, at present, many primary and secondary schools inGuangzhou have established and improved football management mechanisms, but thesemanagement mechanisms are not beyond criticism, and their shortcomings deserveour
discussion and reflection. The common problem in the development of youth football
management mechanism in primary and secondary schools in Guangzhou is the "Absence" or "offside" of management. The so-called management "vacancy" refers to the lack of
professional football managers in some primary and secondary schools, resulting in thevacancy of management posts. In addition, there is a phenomenon that the managersof
football youth training or campus football management institutions are afraid of takingresponsibility. Therefore, in the face of youth football construction and inaction in thefaceof
youth football problems, they can not fundamentally promote the process of youth football inGuangzhou, resulting in the "Absence" of management. The so-called management "offside" refers to the unclear division of labor and unclear responsibilities of the football
management organization, resulting in some managers "not managing what they shouldandnot", and the football organization lacks decision-making autonomy and cannot guaranteethebasic rights and interests of football trainers and football players. (Li Jixia, 2012)
6. 4 Insufficient funds and backward infrastructure
Although the Guangzhou municipal government has increased financial support in recent
years to promote the teaching and activities of youth football, compared with the backwardlevel of football development, these funds are far from enough. At present, the development
of youth football in Guangzhou still largely depends on the support of government forces, andthe main source of funds can not be separated from government departments. This
phenomenon reveals the disadvantages of insufficient funds and single source of fundsinthedevelopment of youth football in Guangzhou, which directly restricts the constructionof
football infrastructure in primary and secondary schools in Guangzhou and affects theexperience and enthusiasm of youth in Guangzhou to participate in football. Many
grass-roots schools in Guangzhou have problems such as lack of venues and incompleteequipment, especially in some towns and rural areas. Children can't even play football onstandard football venues, let alone the cultivation of football talents and the improvement of
football skills. In addition, because the jurisdiction of campus football is still directly vestedin primary and secondary schools, the school's attention to football often determines whether
the campus football work can run smoothly. Many schools are deeply poisoned by theideaof exam oriented education. In order to improve the enrollment rate and popularity of
schools, the leading authorities are often used to taking the examination results as thestandard to measure the comprehensive level of students. Therefore, schools will choosetouse more funds for cultural courses, ignoring the financial needs of campus football, thepurchase and maintenance of field equipment and the practical needs of teenagers tocarryout football training, This seriously violates the development requirements and original
intention of quality education. The lack of financial resources means that students arelikelyto bear their own expenses for the purchase of competition equipment and competitionequipment, as well as the venue rental fee, transportation fee and accommodation feeduringthe competition, which will aggravate the family burden of students. At the same time, parents' support for football training and students' enthusiasm for football will also begreatlyreduced. (Yi Ruxiao,2021)
6. 5 The educational concept is backward and students' enthusiasmfor participationisnot strong
People who study and work because of interest can often achieve twice the result withhalf
the effort. However, at this stage, some primary and secondary school physical educationteachers in Guangzhou have backward teaching ideas and boring teaching methods, whichleads to a significant decline in teenagers' enthusiasm for campus football activities. First of
all, in terms of educational concepts, many teachers still stay in the traditional and backwardideological stage of examination oriented education. They are used to making themselvesthe leader of the classroom and making students passively participate in classroomtheoretical knowledge learning and other classroom activities. The emerging concept of
quality education puts forward that we should give full play to the dominant position of
students, let students become the protagonist in the classroom, and improve the senseof
teaching atmosphere and students' classroom experience, instead of teachers' excessivetension and students' staying out of the classroom. As a highly practical subject, football
course is in good agreement with the teaching concept of quality education. Generallyspeaking, football teaching is close to the unilateral guidance of teachers, which is difficult toimprove students' football skills. Students must be allowed to go to the field, feel thecompetition atmosphere, experience the practical application process of football basic skillssuch as bumping, passing, stopping, dribbling, straight dribbling and curve dribbling, andcooperate with the targeted guidance of teachers in order to learn and be good at something. Secondly, in terms of teaching methods, some teachers are used to the teaching modeof "cramming" and "one speech hall", pay less attention to the changes of teaching methodscaused by the development of high technology, are unwilling or afraid to try innovativeteaching methods and lack new ideas, which will lead to dull classroom atmosphere, boringfootball training process, it is difficult for students to devote themselves to football, andtheeffect of football training will naturally plummet. (Yi Ruxiao, 2021)
7Strategy analysis on the development of youth football in Guangzhou7. 1 Increase the publicity of youth football
7. 1. 1 Strengthen the publicity of youth football
To improve the recognition of youth football, the key is to improve the social status of youthfootball. The demonstration of football social value and the improvement of football social
status largely depend on the publicity of the media and society. In recent years, the
development of professional football league has not only improved the popularity of
Guangzhou, but also created huge economic profits for Guangzhou. In 2015 and 2021, Guangzhou Evergrande won the championship of the Asian Championship Football Leaguetwice, which shows the high-quality competition style and discipline of Guangzhou, andshows that Guangzhou has truly achieved "style and level". Therefore, Guangzhoucantakethe occupation football league as an opportunity to publicize the achievements and
opportunities of Guangzhou football development through the new media channels suchasnewspapers, magazines, short videos, micro-blog, official account and live broadcast. It
stresses the importance of football to Guangzhou's future prosperity construction andobtainswidespread attention and strong support from students, parents, schools and even thewholesociety. Of course, another advantage of publicizing the professional football leagueliesinits potential business opportunities, which is conducive to attracting the attention of
businessmen and broadening the source of funds for the development of youth football, soasto ensure that more sound football infrastructure is provided for teenagers, so that teenagerscan "play football with peace of mind and heart". In addition, 2021 is the year of theOlympicGames. The hosting of the Tokyo Olympic Games affects the hearts of people all over theworld. In this context, the slogan of "Olympic athletes, win glory for the country" resoundedthroughout China. If Guangzhou can keep up with the pace of the times and vigorouslypublicize the social value of football by using the power of social media, it will not only arousethe motivation of teenagers' struggle, but also enable parents and schools to experiencethesocial status and theory of football, so as to abandon prejudice, comprehensively support
teenagers to participate in football and complete their life dreams.
7. 1. 2 Strengthen the spiritual and cultural construction of campus football
Figure 3: "painting activities" of football experimental school in Zhuhai district, GuangzhouSource: Netease News, Wang Wei, November 25, 2020,https://c.m.163.com/news/a/FS9H9OKH05299LQ3.html?from=wap_redirect&spss=adap_pc&referFrom= The construction of football spiritual culture is ignored and lacking by most primary andsecondary schools and football youth training institutions in China, and Guangzhou is noexception. In order to show the competition results faster, many primary and secondaryschools and football youth training institutions in Guangzhou choose to focus on football skill
training, ignoring the construction of sports atmosphere, spiritual and cultural constructionand the inner emotional needs of students. Ideological cognition determines the height of
behavior. Spiritual culture may not be the most important and core part of a collectiveor acountry, but it is the most indispensable part in the development of things, because spiritual
and cultural construction provides spiritual power, cultural environment and intellectual
support for economic construction, political construction and social construction. For
football, the construction of spiritual culture is also irreplaceable, which is conducivetostrengthening the "ball intelligence" of teenagers and consolidating the sacred positionof
football in the eyes of teenagers. Based on this, in order to improve teenagers' recognitionof football, it is necessary to strengthen the spiritual and cultural construction of campusfootball in Guangzhou. Guangzhou can advocate that primary and secondary schoolspublicize and inherit football culture through speech competitions, blackboard newspapers,
theme class meetings, football competitions and other ways, guide students to establishsafety awareness, carry out healthy sports, teach students to follow the rules of the game, respect their opponents, and encourage students to establish a strong will to fight tenaciously, so as to achieve the purpose of "football moral education". At present, Zhuhai district of
Guangzhou has played a leading role in the construction and inheritance of campus football
culture. Zhuhai District Football experimental school actively carries out "painting activities", "Sports Festival", "School Football Festival", "story Essay solicitation between me andfootball", "football match between teachers and students", "parent-child football" withthetheme of football, so as to improve the cultural taste of the campus. (Liu Pai, 2022)
7. 2 Strengthening the teaching staff of youth football
7. 2. 1 Strengthen training and cultivate excellent teachers
Figure 4: Class D coach training course of China Football Association
Source: Guangdong Amateur Football Association,December 8, 2021, https://mbd.baidu.com/ma/s/uCqsboWh
"Teachers are engineers of the human soul. "Teachers, so preaching, teaching anddispelling doubts. " It can be seen that only qualified teachers can cultivate excellent students. Benitez believes that China's youth football training must start with training newcoacheswithadvanced knowledge and ideas. Therefore, in order to further improve the teachinglevel of
campus football, Guangzhou should pay attention to the training of advanced theoretical
knowledge of football, and strive to cultivate a compound football teacher teamwith goodbasic theoretical knowledge, excellent football professional skills, good professional ethicsand strong innovation ability. All primary and secondary schools shall actively select
personnel to participate in the national training of backbone football teachers on campus, andcontinue to do a good job in the training of campus football teachers at the provincial andmunicipal levels, so as to improve the teaching and training level of football teachers. At
present, Guangzhou has achieved remarkable results in teacher training. FromOctober
2019 to September 2020, according to the requirements of Guangzhou Municipal Bureauof
education, Guangzhou Football Association publicly recruited more than 60 retired football
players holding grade D or above certificates of China Football Association, and conductedstrict training and assessment. After screening, 50 qualified and qualified elite instructorsare dispatched to designated schools to carry out football guidance. It is understoodthat
from 2019 to 2020, 50 elite campus football instructors trained more than 2000 studentsand20 teachers, driving the development of campus football in schools around the school district. At the same time, Guangzhou also attaches great importance to improving teachers' professional ethics. Wei Xing, coach and lecturer of AFC, said, "As a campus football coach,
in addition to professional skills, he must first meet the standard of a teacher, becausethebiggest goal of campus football is to establish morality and cultivate people. If you want tocorrectly guide the children of campus football to become an excellent person, you must first
improve the quality of coaches and meet the requirements of teachers. In the next training,
they need to improve their own quality and meet the standard of a teacher Then, in termsof
business and professional skills, I hope to give them continuous improvement. " Of course,
the football teacher training project in Guangzhou still has a long way to go in the future, because it is immature and imperfect in both quantity and quality.(He Zemin, 2021)
7. 2. 2 Introduce foreign professionals and save reserve talent resources
The trial basic standard for physical health conditions in national schools points out that
schools should equip physical education teachers within the approved total number of
teaching staff, according to the characteristics of physical education teaching, the number of
physical education class hours in the teaching plan and the needs of carrying out
extracurricular physical activities. One PE teacher for every 5-6 classes in Grade 1andgrade 2 of primary school, and one PE teacher for every 6-7 classes in grades 3 to 6; Junior
middle school is equipped with one PE teacher for every 6-7 classes; High schools (includingsecondary vocational schools) are equipped with one PE teacher for every 8-9 classes. However, at present, not all primary and secondary schools in Guangzhou can be equippedwith sufficient physical education teacher resources, especially the number of professional
football teachers. In order to solve this practical difficulty, the Guangzhou municipal
government and primary and secondary schools can take the way of introducing foreignprofessionals (foreign teachers) to break through the bottleneck of the insufficient number of
football physical education teachers. At the same time, this can also save reserve talent
resources for Guangzhou and even the whole country, promote the sustainable development
of youth football in Guangzhou and the whole country, and avoid the phenomenon of "fault" infootball cultivation. How can we hire foreign teachers with advanced professional
knowledge and rich practical experience? The key is for the Guangzhou municipal
government to be willing to "focus on the bottom", improve the treatment of teachers, attract
talents, and improve the reserve of teacher resources in Guangzhou, especially in townsandrural areas. (National Basic Standards for School Physical Education and Health Conditions)
7. 3 Improve the management level of youth football
7. 3. 1 Clarify responsibilities and division of labor to avoid offside or absenceA sound management system is the fundamental premise and guarantee for the normal
operation of the organization. Only by establishing and improving the scientific football
management system and system can teachers and students have no worries at home, soasto devote themselves to football training, promote the football classroomto give full playtoitseffectiveness and train excellent football reserve talents for the country as much as possible. Therefore, Guangzhou Education Department should require and encourage all primaryandsecondary schools and football youth training institutions to establish independent youthfootball management institutions, and equip a sufficient number of professional campusfootball managers, so as to solve the management problems encountered in the processof
teaching and training, solve the basic needs of students, and provide logistics serviceguarantee for the development of youth football. On the basis of constructing the youthfootball management organization, all primary and secondary schools and youth traininginstitutions should also formulate a set of scientific, reasonable and feasible systemfor themanagement organization to standardize the working standards of internal managers. Thekey to standardizing the institutional system of the management organization is to clarifytheresponsibilities and division of labor, that is, to clarify that all practices of the football
management organization should be the responsibility of the internal personnel of themanagement organization, and other external personnel shall not intervene without
authorization. At the same time, all small organizations within the football management
organization and their principals shall also fulfill their responsibilities, and shall not shirktheir
responsibilities at will, and shall not forcibly intervene in the decisions of other organizations.
In this way, the football management mechanism should fulfill its responsibilities andperformits duties, so as to avoid the "offside" phenomenon of the outflow of decision-makingpower
and the "Absence" phenomenon of inaction and irresponsibility.
7. 3. 2 Establish youth football supervision system and evaluation systemIn order to improve the football management level of teenagers, only establishing a singlefootball management organization is far from meeting the practical needs. A set of scientificand complete football management system must also be equipped with a special football
supervision system and football evaluation system. As the name suggests, the mainfunction of football supervision system is supervision and control. Its specific responsibilityis to supervise the daily work of football management institutions and football managers. The establishment of football supervision system is conducive to avoiding corruption, offside, vacancy and other adverse phenomena in campus football departments or youth football
training institutions, so as to ensure the effective use of football special funds allocatedbythefinancial department, ensure that football managers will not damage the basic legitimateeducational rights and interests of youth football players for their own selfish desires, andavoid negative and slack working mentality of football managers, Avoid its direct or indirect
impact on the training efficiency of youth football. The main function of football evaluationsystem is to evaluate the teaching effect of campus football departments or youth football
training institutions, summarize their successful experience in the development processandfind their potential shortcomings, so as to help football trainers and youth athletes recognizetheir existing defects and lay the foundation for their further development.
7. 4 Do a good job of youth football security
7. 4. 1 Create innovative football venues and update basic equipment
Figure 5: Shenzhen innovative football field
Photo source: Shenzhen evening news, Lin Weihang, June 20, 2020,https://2ly4hg.smartapps.cn/pages/article/article?articleId=403073850&authorId=757969&spm=smbd.content.share.0.1649412423087QXYvYpO&_trans_=010005_wxhy_shw&_swebfr=1&_swebFromHost=baiduboxapp
The so-called innovative football field refers to a new football field designed in combinationwith key elements such as high technology, green and environmental protection. Onthebasis of ensuring that the number of ordinary football fields matches with football players, it isnecessary to consider building innovative football fields in Guangzhou. The creationof
innovative football venues in Guangzhou can refer to the advanced practices of Shenzhen.
In October 2019, Shenzhen was listed as the second batch of pilot cities for the constructionof urban community football venues and facilities. Combined with the high standardconsciousness of "first demonstration", Shenzhen, in accordance with the constructionmethods of comprehensive utilization, repair and transformation, new construction andcapacity expansion, closely combined with ecological restoration, urban repair, urbanrenewal, old city transformation and other work, explored a new mode of football field constructionthrough the transformation and utilization of existing buildings, roofs and other spaces, andrational use of park green space and municipal land, so as to lay the infrastructure foundationfor the vigorous development of football in the country, It also demonstrates the leadingroleof leading demonstration. On the basis of creating innovative football venues, Guangzhoucan choose to update and transform the original ordinary football venues to improvetheir useefficiency. In addition to the construction, transformation and use of football venues, Guangzhou should also be equipped with a certain number of labor forces and allocatesufficient funds to regularly inspect, register, supplement and replace the basic football
equipment of primary and secondary schools and youth football training institutions inthecity, so as to establish a youth football guarantee system and promote the high-quality
development of youth football in Guangzhou. (Chen Yuanxin, 2020)
7. 4. 2 Expand sources of funds and seek external cooperation mechanisms
The premise of establishing youth football security system is to have sufficient funds topromote the implementation of specific work behaviors. At present, the development of
youth football in Guangzhou mainly depends on the allocation of special government funds. From a long-term perspective, this is not conducive to the stable development of youthfootball in Guangzhou. Because the allocation of government financial funds is uncertain, relying only on a single source of funds is likely to cause the campus football department andyouth football training institutions to face the risk of capital chain rupture. Therefore, Guangzhou should consider expanding the source of funds to promote the stability andsustainable development of youth football. In addition to relying on government
departments, campus football institutions and youth football training, we can also find
external cooperation mechanisms to absorb social funds and football resources on alargescale. For example, in recent years, the development of professional football in Guangzhouhas attracted increasing attention, which has attracted the interest of many manufacturers(including sports shoe manufacturers, sportswear manufacturers, sports equipment
manufacturers, etc. ). Football institutions can choose to cooperate with appropriatebusinesses to increase the audience rating by holding football league matches, or increasethe popularity of manufacturers by advertising and endorsement, so as to publicize their
products and create profits for manufacturers, At the same time, obtain the amount of
financial support from manufacturers and infrastructure support, and finally achieve awin-winsituation. In addition, because the development of campus football is often not linkedtoutilitarianism, primary and secondary schools in Guangzhou can try to raise funds throughpublic welfare, so as to provide effective material guarantee for the healthy sports of youngfootball players. 7. 5 Innovative football education concept
7. 5. 1 Adhere to the people-oriented educational concept and highlight the dominant
position of students
In terms of educational concept, primary and secondary schools in Guangzhou shouldabandon the backward thinking concept of examination oriented education, pay attentiontothe development requirements of quality education, pay attention to the all-round
development of students, train students according to the educational requirements of thecomprehensive development of morality, intelligence, physique, beauty and labor, andbuildanew benign teacher-student relationship of "students first and teachers second". Therefore,
in the football classroom, football teachers should also follow the people-oriented educational
concept, highlight the dominant position of students, let students become the protagonist inthe classroom, encourage students to participate in more football practice activities andunderstand the true meaning of football in practice. In addition, football trainers shouldalsofocus on students' psychological and emotional needs, strengthen communication with
students, properly supervise and evaluate students' training, be responsible for students, givestudents professional football skills guidance, and help students exercise their ability, soastopromote the overall development of youth football in Guangzhou. 7. 5. 2Innovate teaching methods and realize interesting teaching
Figure 6: football game teaching activities
Source: Xiaoxiang Morning Post, February 8, 2022, https://mr.mbd.baidu.com/r/FDqaG1ckIo?f=cp&u=7f3c9507130fd93c
With the renewal and progress of science and technology, China's teaching methods andteaching tools have also undergone earth shaking changes. The traditional "one speechhall" teaching has no longer adapted to the needs of the times. As a simple, convenient, scientific and interesting teaching mode, multimedia teaching has been deeply extendedtothe teaching practice of various subjects in the field of education. In fact, multimediateaching is also applicable to the teaching of theoretical knowledge of campus football. Through rich and wonderful pictures, videos and cool animation display, it not only realizesthe innovation of teaching methods, but also breaks the dull classroom atmosphere, soastoimprove teenagers' interest in football and realize interesting teaching. In addition, asaninteresting teaching method, game teaching method can also be widely used in the teaching
practice of Guangzhou Youth Football Course. In the design of football teaching content,
teachers can appropriately integrate the game color, build a relaxed and pleasant teachingatmosphere, and help students master football skills such as passing, kicking, guardingandbumping in recreational activities. For example, in football teaching class, teachers candivide students into groups, divide them into groups of 4 or 5 people according to thenumber
of students, and then carry out "football stroke game". In a fixed time, the group withalargenumber of dribbles is the winning group. The game teaching method is set up to fullymeasure the nature of children's love of playing. It can not only help students learnteamwork and forge ahead in the game, but also enable students to master basic football
skills. It can be described as "killing more with one stone". 8 Future prospect of youth football in Guangzhou
8. 1 From campus football to professional football
At present, the development trend of youth football in Guangzhou is fromcampus football toprofessional football. Compared with campus football, professional football is different indevelopment purpose and resource source. The first is the purpose of development. Thepurpose of campus football is to cultivate morality, cultivate students with strong sportsability, and promote the development of teenagers' physical quality and comprehensive quality; Thepurpose of professional football is to select and train professional and professional youngfootball players. The second is the source of resources. The funds and football
infrastructure of campus football mainly come from the subsidies of government departments;
Professional football makes more use of folk forces to obtain funds and other resources. From campus football to professional football means that the development of football inGuangzhou is more advanced and mature. It is conducive to find teenagers with football
talents earlier, cultivate them, and finally import sports reserve talents for the country. 8. 2 Pay more attention to the construction of competition system
In order to achieve the goal of promoting practice through competition, Guangzhou hasestablished an integrated campus football competition system of "intra school competition(Class League) - inter school league - Selection competition - national exchange competition". This competition system can more directly select high-quality sports talents through layer bylayer selection, so as to make full use of football sports resources to cultivate high-level
football players. In the future, Guangzhou will pay more attention to the constructionof thecompetition system, and other relevant factors such as teacher training, students' interestsand feedback mechanism will also be incorporated into its competition systemstructure. 9 Conclusions
To sum up, under the background of the sluggish development of the national football
team, through in-depth research on the historical evolution and development status of
Guangzhou youth football, this paper found the problems existing in the development of
Guangzhou youth football at this stage, including: teachers, parents and students havedeviation in understanding the connotation and importance of youth football; The teachersof
campus football and youth football training institutions are weak; Football management
system is not perfect; Insufficient funds and backward infrastructure; The education concept
and teaching method are backward, and the students' participation enthusiasmis not strong.
In this regard, the solutions provided by this paper include: increasing the publicity of youthfootball; Strengthening the construction of campus football spirit and culture; Increasetrainingefforts to cultivate excellent teachers; Introduce foreign professionals and save reservetalents; Clear responsibilities and division of labor to avoid offside or vacancy; Establishingthe supervision system and evaluation system of youth football; Create innovative football
venues and update basic equipment; Expand the sources of funds and look for external
cooperation mechanisms; Adhere to the people-oriented education concept and highlight thedominant position of students; Innovate teaching methods, improve teenagers' interest infootball, and realize interesting teaching. This paper has effectively achieved the researchpurpose of the article, which is conducive to improving the scientificity, effectiveness andfeasibility of the development of Guangzhou youth football, thus promoting the constructionof
Guangzhou football city and football campus, and providing reference for the development of
football in other domestic cities, ultimately promoting the overall development of the national
football cause, training and providing football reserve talents for the country, and acceleratingthe establishment and consolidation of the national sports power status, Improve China'scomprehensive national strength. The way out for Chinese football lies in the training of young football players. ComradeMao Zedong, the great leader, once said that "civilize the spirit and barbarize the physique". Football is not only conducive to training the physical quality of young people, promotingtheir
physical and mental health, but also conducive to cultivating the will quality of youngpeople, giving them the spiritual strength to be afraid of hardship and dare to struggle. The
development of youth football in the future will be widely concerned by the society. Of course,
it will also face new opportunities and challenges. We need to pay close attention toit all thetime to improve our professional judgment and lay a foundation for future employment.
List of references
Cui Lequan. Historical Investigation and Experience Inspiration of the Development of
Chinese Campus Football [J]. Journal of Shanghai Institute of Physical Education, 2018, 42(04): 12-18. DOI: 10.16099/j.sus.2018.04.003
Chang Pengchao. Guangzhou Institute of Physical Education won the championshipof the2019 Guangdong Provincial "Governor's Cup" Youth Campus Football League (UniversityGroup) provincial final men's Group B A [J]. Sports Teachers and Friends, 2019, 42 (06): 2Chen Yuanxin, He Kaifang, Yang Jin'e, Lu Junfeng. Research on the use of non sports landtobuild sports venues and facilities in China [J]. Sports Research, 2020,34 (05): 41-47. DOI:
10.15,877/j.cnki.nsic.201,010.003
Educating People First and Pragmatically Promoting the "Guangzhou Mode" of IntegratedDevelopment of Campus Football -- Introduction to the Work of Guangzhou YouthCampusFootball in Guangdong Province [J]. Campus Football, 2020 (05): 21-26
General Office of the Ministry of Education of Guangzhou. Implementation Planof
Guangzhou Youth Campus Football Reform Pilot Zone (2019-2021)〔Z〕. 2019
Guangdong Amateur Football Association, December 8, 2021,https://mbd.baidu.com/ma/s/uCqsboWh
HouXuehua.Research on the value of national youth campus football activities [J] Journal of
Beijing University of physical education. 2012,35 (12): 77-83
Hirohiro Matsumoto. Overview and Prospect of modern Japanese football [M] Journal of
Shanghai Institute of Physical Education. Huang He. Development analysis of "campus football" activities in primary and secondaryschools in Hefei [D]. Guangxi: Guangxi Normal University, 2011
He Zemin, Research on the Current Situation and Development Countermeasures of PETeacher Training in Non football Special Middle Schools of Campus Football in GuangdongProvince [D]. Guangzhou Institute of Physical Education, 2021. DOI:
10.27042/d.cnki.ggztc.2021.000022
Li Jixia. Research on the development strategy of national youth campus football activities[D]. Shanghai Institute of physical education, 2012
Li Weidong, Zhang Tingan, Lu Yu, et al. Investigation and Analysis on the development of
national youth campus football activities [J]. Shanghai Institute of physical educationnews, 2011,35 (5): 22-31
Liu Pai, Zhang Yifen, Cheng Wenguang A Study on Campus Football Spiritual CultureinPrimary and Secondary Schools [C]//. Summary of the Sixth China Football Cultureand
Campus Football Development Conference in 2022. [Publisher unknown], 2022:54. DOI:
10.26914/c.cnkihy.2022.026969
Ministry of education. Physique survey [S].2020. Netease News, Wang Wei, November 25, 2020, https://c.m.163.com/news/a/FS9H9OKH05299LQ3.html?from=wap_redirect&spss=adap_pc&referFrom= Nine school news, December 23, 2021, https://mi.mbd.baidu.com/r/FDix21jqBG?f=cp&u=63efbbe9c8f47b4b
Southern plus, GuoSuying, Wu Yulun, November 26, 2020, https://3g.163.com/dy/article/FSC058L2055004XG.html
QiuYulin.Research on the current situation of campus football in pilot primary schoolsinGuangzhou [D]. Guangzhou University, 2016
Xiaoxiang Morning Post, February 8, 2022, https://mr.mbd.baidu.com/r/FDqaG1ckIo?f=cp&u=7f3c9507130fd93c
Xinhua news agency, Ma Bangjie, CaiYongjun, September 26, 2020, https://m.thepaper.cn/baijiahao_9357307?sdkver=771db3e7
Yi Ruxiao. Problems and Countermeasures in the Development of Youth Campus Football [J]. Taste · Classics, 2021 (20): 170-172
Ye Xinhao. Investigation and Research on the current situation of after-school traininginGuangzhou Campus Football Promotion School [D]. Guangzhou University, 2016
Zhu Pinyi. Current situation investigation and Development Countermeasures of youthcampus football elite instructors in Guangdong Province [D]. Guangzhou Institute of physical
education, 2021